<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Preliminary Notes On African Carnivora</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="afch1">
  <span id="page23" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="23"/>
  <h1 id="afch1">Preliminary Notes On African Carnivora</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by J. A. Allen</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 23&#8211;31; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373716" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373716</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#af01">Genus <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> Lesson</a></li>
      <li><a href="#af02"><span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span> <abbr>nom. nov.</abbr></a></li>
      <li><a href="#af03"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span> <abbr>gen. nov.</abbr></a></li>
      <li><a href="#af04"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></a></li>
      <li><a href="#af05"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> <abbr>gen. nov.</abbr></a></li>
      <li><a href="#af06"><span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></a></li>
      <li><a href="#gnamesh2">The Generic Names <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> and <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#footnotes">Footnotes</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p>The purpose of these notes is to secure early record for certain
results obtained in a study of some 600 specimens of African Carnivora
collected by the American Museum of Natural History Expedition in
Belgian Congo during the years
<time>1909</time>&#8211;<time>1915</time>, under the leadership of
Herbert Lang and James P. Chapin of the scientific staff of the
Museum, as the final report, now practically finished, will be delayed
in publication. These notes relate in part to some of the more
interesting of the new forms thus disclosed and in part to questions of
taxonomy and nomenclature. The full report will include numerous
illustrations, from pen drawings, of the cranial and external characters
of not only the new forms but also of the principal generic types of
the Viverrinæ and Herpestinæ represented, and numerous reproductions
of field photographs of specimens in life or in the flesh, and
photographs from skins illustrating individual color variation, for which
large series of specimens from single localities afford abundant material.</p>
    <p>These preliminary notes are here published with the approval of the
American Museum authorities. The full report will form part of
Volume XLII of the Museum <em>Bulletin</em> which will be exclusively
devoted to the Congo collection of mammals. The first part of this
volume, containing the report on the Insectivora, is already in press.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="af01" aria-labelledby="af01h2">
    <h2 id="af01h2">Genus <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> Lesson</h2>
    <section id="af01.desc" class="adesc" aria-label="Academic history of Aonyx">
      <ol>
        <li><span class="taxon">Lutra</span> (part) most authors prior to <time>1900</time>.</li>
        <li><span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> Lesson (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#lesson-1827" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1827</time> page 157</a>). Type, by monotypy, <span class="taxon">Aonyx delalandi</span> Lesson (<time>1827</time>) = <span class="taxon">Lutra inunguis</span> F. Cuvier (<time>1823</time>) = <span class="taxon">Lutra capensis</span> Schinz (<time>1821</time>).</li>
        <li><span role="list">
          <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Anahyster</span> Murray (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#murray-1860" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1860</time> page 157</a>). Type, by monotypy, <span class="taxon">Anahyster calaharica</span> Murray, <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr>, from Old Calabar, West Africa.</span>
          <span role="listitem"> Gray (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#gray-1865" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1865</time> page 129</a>). (As a subgenus of <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>; restricted to the clawless otters of Africa.)</span>
        </span></li>
        <li><span role="list">
          <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> (part) Gray (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#gray-1865" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1865</time> page 129</a>) (Restricted to the Indian clawless otters.)</span>
          <span role="listitem">Thomas (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#thomas-1908" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1908</time> page 387</a>). (Part; includes both the African and Indian species.)</span>
        </span></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <p id="af01.p1">The genus <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> Lesson was exclusively based on the so-called
clawless otter of the Cape region of South Africa
(<span class="taxon">Lutra capensis</span> Schinz, renamed
<span class="taxon">Aonyx delalandi</span> by Lesson), of which the genus
<span class="taxon">Anahyster</span> Murray, based on a clawless otter from Old Calabar,
is a synonym.
<span id="page24" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="24"/>
Notwithstanding the great specialization of its type, <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> did not
receive general recognition as a genus till the present century.
J. E. Gray, in <time>1865</time> and later, recognized <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> as a full genus, but he
combined with the <span class="taxon">Aonyx capensis</span> group the clawless otters of southern Asia.
More than this, he divided <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>, as he recognized it, into
two groups, and wrongly assigned his restricted <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> to the Asiatic
species and adopted <span class="taxon">Anahyster</span> for the African species, the only species
originally included in <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>.</p>
    <p id="af01.p2">Lesson, the founder of <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>, proposed <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> in
<time>1842</time>,<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
for the clawless otters of Asia, a name unfortunately doubly preoccupied, first
for a genus of birds (Swainson 1821) and later for a genus of seals
(Gray 1837). Both groups are entitled to full generic acceptance,
according to standard modern opinion as to what constitute generic
differences among mammals. <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>
however, has hitherto stood for
both groups, whenever used in either a generic or a subgeneric sense.</p>
    <p id="af01.p3">While the foot structure of the clawless otters of Africa and the
small-clawed otters of Asia is similar, the external and cranial
characters, including the dentition, are widely different in the two groups.
Yet the clawless Asiatic otters have been, and are still, referred to
<span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>,
when not placed in <span class="taxon">Lutra</span>, and, with one exception, all the
figures that I have seen purporting to give the cranial and dental
characters of Aonyx have been based on the skulls of Asiatic forms.
Hence a non-typical and, from my viewpoint, a non-congeneric form
not originally included in the genus has been taken to typify
<span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>, so far as the literature of the group
is concerned.<sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup></p>
  </section>
  <section id="af02" aria-labelledby="af02h2">
    <h2 id="af02h2"><span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span> <abbr>nom. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <section id="af02.desc" class="adesc" aria-label="Academic history of Micraonyx">
      <ol>
        <li><span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> (subgenus of <span class="taxon">Lutra</span>) Lesson (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#lesson-1842" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1842</time> page 72</a>). Type, by tautonymy, <span class="taxon">Lutra leptonyx</span> Horsfield = <span class="taxon">Lutra cinerea</span> Illiger.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <p>The name <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> is preoccupied by <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> Swainson (<time>1821</time>) for a genus of birds, and by <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> Gray (<time>1837</time>) for a genus of seals. It is here replaced by <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span>.</p>
    <p>While the external differences are by no means insignificant, those
of the skull and teeth are such as most taxonomers consider as of high
<span id="page25" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="25"/>
importance. Some of these differences have not escaped record, but
this fact has not directed to them the attention they deserve. While
at first glance the skulls of <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> and <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span>
appear to have many features in common, they differ greatly in proportions and in
the relative size of corresponding teeth. In <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> the antorbital
portion of the skull is heavily developed, being broad, with large
incisors and canines, while the carnassials and molars are only
moderately developed in proportion to the size of the skull; all these conditions
are reversed in <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span>. In the latter the facial portion of
the skull is narrow and weak, with small incisors and canines, while
the carnassials and molars are enormously developed for the size of
the skull, these teeth about equalling those of <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>, which has a
skull fully three times the bulk of the skull of <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span>. This
creates a vast difference in the relative breadth of the palatal space
between the carnassials and molars of the maxillary series, which in
<span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span> is much less than the transverse breadth of
<span class="nomen">m<sup>1</sup></span>, while in
<span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> this space is one and a half times greater than the transverse
breadth of <span class="nomen">m<sup>1</sup></span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="af03" aria-labelledby="af03h2">
    <h2 id="af03h2"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span><sup><a href="#footnote.3" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[3]</a></sup> <abbr>gen. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <section id="af03.type" aria-label="Osbornictis Type Specimen">
      <p>Type, <span class="taxon">Osbornictus piscivora</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></p>
      <p>Skull long and lightly built; teeth small, especially the carnassials and
upper molars, with correlated size reduction in all the other teeth. Sagittal
and lambdoid crests and postorbital processes highly developed. Rhinarium
small, without a median sulcus. Soles and palms bare, not furred as in <span class="taxon">Genetta</span>
and allied genera. Color of body uniform red; tail black; head-markings white;
wholly without the black spots and bands so characteristic of the other
Viverinæ. Habits piscivorous.</p>
    </section>
    <p id="af03.p1"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span> is most nearly related to <span class="taxon">Genetta</span>,
from which however it strikingly differs. It requires comparison with no other genus. The
type agrees closely in size with <span class="taxon">Genetta victoriæ</span>, the largest of the genets.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="af04" aria-labelledby="af04h2">
    <h2 id="af04h2"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <p id="af04.p1">Type, <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 51514, male adult, Niapu, Belgian Congo,
<time datetime="1913-12-01">December 1, 1913</time>; Herbert
Lang and James P. Chapin, American Museum Congo Expedition. <abbr>Orig.</abbr> <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 2147.
Skin and complete skeleton.</p>
    <span id="page26" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="26"/>
    <p id="af04.p2">External measurements about as in <span class="taxon">Genetta victoriæ</span> Thomas,
but soles and
palms naked, and coloration radically different; skull slender, dentition weak,
the teeth about half the transverse diameter of the corresponding teeth in
<span class="taxon"><abbr>G.</abbr> victoriæ</span>.</p>
    <p id="af04.p3">Entire upperparts uniform dark chestnut red, without trace of spots or bands;
this color, in reduced intensity, extends over the underparts from the pectoral
region to the base of the tail, lightening to dull red mesially with a slight
mixture of whitish hairs along the midline of abdomen; head from muzzle
posteriorly and laterally to the eyes, pale fuscous brown with a tinge of reddish,
broken by a pair of elongated spots of clear white between the eyes divided by a
narrow fuscous band, and a narrower, more indistinct posterior pair between
the anterior base of ears; a narrow black eyering; front and sides of muzzle and
sides of head below eyes whitish, intensified to a clear white spot just below the
anterior two thirds of each eye; ears exteriorly blackish, which color extends
mesad over the lateral third on each side of the crown; ears nearly naked
internally and edged with long whitish hairs; chin and throat white, passing into
brownish posteriorly with scattered whitish hairs on the foreneck; tail entirely
without annulations, heavily clothed with long black hairs, 45-50 <abbr>mm.</abbr> in length,,
the heavy underfur pale brownish gray, about 25&#8211;30 <abbr>mm.</abbr> in length; fore and
hind limbs dull slightly rufescent brown, passing into blackish brown on upper
surface of feet. Rhinarium similar in contour to that of
<span id="af04.p3.tax1" class="taxon">Genetta victoriæ</span>, but
about one half smaller. Soles and palms naked, the pads not enclosed nor
separated by dense fur, as in <span class="taxon">Genetta</span> and <span id="af04.p3.tax2" class="taxon">Civettictis</span>,
with the carpal pad greatly
elongated as in <span id="af04.p3.tax3" class="taxon">Viverricula</span>. Pelage long and dense, that of the tail especially
so, its tail equal in size to that of the most heavy-tailed examples of
<span id="af04.p3.tax4" class="taxon"><abbr>G.</abbr> victoriæ</span>.</p>
    <p id="af04.p4">Represented by the adult male type (skin and complete skeleton) and an
imperfect native-made skin (without skull, feet, or tail), similar to the type in
coloration, length of body, and in head-markings, except that the latter are
yellowish through staining instead of white. (Measurements and illustrations
of the cranial and external characters and a colored plate of the animal will
appear in the final report on the Congo Carnivora.)</p>
  </section>
  <section id="af05" aria-labelledby="af05h2">
    <h2 id="af05h2"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> <abbr>gen. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <section id="af05.type" aria-label="Xenogale Type Specimen">
      <p>Type, <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></p>
      <p>Toes 5&#8211;5; soles and palms furred; dental formula, relative size and general
structure of the teeth as in <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> (<abbr>s.s.</abbr>);
skull relatively short and broad,
postpalatal region especially so; postorbital constriction deep and close behind
the postorbital processes; braincase short, proportioned about as in <span class="taxon">Ichneumia</span>,
very different in form from the braincase of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>; tail short and thick, as
in <span class="taxon">Ichneumia</span> and <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>,
in contrast with the long slender tail of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>, in
which the heavily haired portion is restricted to the basal third.</p>
    </section>
    <p id="af05.p1"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> presents a singular combination of characters.
Externally it strongly resembles <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>, particularly in the texture and
coloration of the pelage, and in the field was mistaken for an <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>,
but in cranial characters and in dentition the two forms present little
<span id="page27" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="27"/>
similarity. It resembles <span class="taxon">Ichneumia</span> in external form, in its long heavy
overhair, and in having furred palms and soles, thus differing in this
latter respect from both
<span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> and <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>.
It has the light and rather weak dentition of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>,
but the skull is relatively much
shorter, broader and heavier than in the latter, with the postpalatal
region correspondingly shorter and wider. The short, thick tail also
contrasts strongly with the attenuate tail of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>.
    </p>
  </section>
  <section id="af06" aria-labelledby="af06h2">
    <h2 id="af06h2"><span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <p>Type, <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 51625, male adult, Akenge, Belgian Congo,
<time datetime="1913-12-04">December 4, 1913</time>; Herbert
Lang and James P. Chapin, American Museum Congo Expedition. Original <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 2194.</p>
    <p>Small-toothed, with a general external resemblance to the <span class="taxon">Atilax</span> group.</p>
    <p>Upper parts of body with the overhair black broadly annulated with rufous,
giving a grizzled effect of deep black and ochraceous orange; the individual
hairs are light at base passing into black, the outer half black ringed and tipped
with ochraceous or wholly black; underfur pale buff, darker at extreme base;
tail like the back at base, becoming lighter apically without distinctive change
(to black or white) at tip, the hairs individually buff at base, broadly ringed with
black near the middle and subapically ringed with whitish; limbs uniform brownish
black to intense black (in different individuals); head distinctly lighter than
body, the hairs short and conspicuously tipped with whitish, giving a grizzled
grayish effect ventral area similar to the back but more suffused with rufous
which prevails over the black; foreneck from the axillar line to lower part of the
throat blackish the hairs conspicuously tipped with whitish, giving a grizzled
effect; chin, sides of head and top of nose with a brownish tone, the hairs extremely
short; palms and soles bare as in <span class="taxon">Ichneumia</span>.
(A fuller description, with detailed
measurements and illustrations of cranial and external characters, will appear
in the final report on the Congo Carnivora.)</p>
  </section>
  <section id="gnames" aria-labelledby="gnamesh2">
    <h2 id="gnamesh2">The Generic Names <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> and <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span></h2>
    <p id="gnames.p1">The specific name <span class="taxon">mungo</span> dates from Gmelin,
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#gmelin-1788" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1788</time> page 84</a>),
<span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> being the second species of his genus <span class="taxon">Viverra</span>.
His <span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> was based primarily on the banded mongoose of
Africa, although the habitat is given as India, and references to various
indeterminate Asiatic species are included among his bibliographic
citations under <span class="taxon"><abbr>V.</abbr> mungos</span>.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p2">As no diagnosis is given by which the species can be identified it
must be determined by the first identifiable reference. The first reference
is &#8220;Schreber,
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#schreber-1774" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Säugethiere, III, page 430, t.CXVIA, CXVIB</a>).&#8221;
Schreber’s plate CXVI is an accredited copy of Buffon’s figure of
&#8220;La mangouste.&#8221; Buffon and Daubenton supposed that their specimens
<span id="page28" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="28"/>
came from India, but no definite place of origin is mentioned for any
of the several specimens mentioned by them. Hence for the next
half century Buffon’s &#8220;La Mangouste&#8221; was believed to be an Indian
species. It was not till <time>1835</time> that Daubenton’s plate and description
were recognized as based on the banded mongoose of Africa, currently
known in technical literature as
<span id="gnames.p2.tax1" class="taxon">Crossarchus fasciatus</span> (Desmarest).</p>
    <p id="gnames.p3">In <time>1803</time> E. Geoffroy, in his
&#8216;<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#geoffroy-1803" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><span lang="fr">Catalogue
des Mammifères du Muséum nationale d’Histoire naturelle</span></a>&#8217; (Paris), redescribed &#8216;La Mangouste&#8217; of
Buffon and Daubenton <em>from the specimen which served as the basis of
the original description</em>, under &#8220;La Mangouste de l’ Inde,
<span class="taxon">Ichneumon mungo</span>,&#8221;
giving its distinctive characters as
&#8220;<span lang="fr">Pelage varié de roux et de noir, par zones transversales;
queue pointue; pieds pentadactyles.</span>&#8221;<sup><a href="#footnote.7" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[7]</a></sup>
Among his citations are
<span role="list">
<span role="listitem">&#8220;La Mangouste, <abbr>Buff.</abbr> <abbr>Daubt.</abbr>
<abbr>t.</abbr> 13, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 150&#8211;160, <abbr>pl.</abbr> 19;&#8221;</span>
<span role="listitem">&#8220;<span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span>, Schreber, <abbr>tabl.</abbr> 116;&#8221;</span>
<span role="listitem">&#8220;<span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span>, <abbr>Lin.</abbr> <abbr>Gmel.</abbr>,
<abbr>p.</abbr> 84, <abbr>pl.</abbr> 7.&#8221;</span>
</span>
Then follows a detailed description, its &#8220;patrie&#8221;<sup><a href="#footnote.8" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[8]</a></sup> (&#8220;<span lang="fr">Les indes orientales</span>&#8221;<sup><a href="#footnote.9" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[9]</a></sup>),
the number of the specimen in the catalogue of the Museum (&#8220;<abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> ccxxiv&#8221;),
followed by the remark:
&#8220;<span lang="fr">Individu qui a servi de sujet pour la descript. prècédente, et celle de
Buffon.</span>&#8221;<sup><a href="#footnote.10" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[10]</a></sup>
The identity of the original La Mangouste is thus thoroughly established.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p4">Desmarest, in his &#8216;Mammalogie&#8217;
(<a id="gnames.p4.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#desmarest-1820" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">I, <time>1820</time>, page 211</a>),
gave essentially
the same description, based doubtless on the original type-specimen,
under the names &#8220;Mangouste à bandes, <span class="taxon">Herpestes mungo</span>.&#8221;
Three years later
(<a id="gnames.p4.bib2" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#cuvier-1823" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">via Cuvier, <time>1823</time>, page 58</a>)
he changed the technical name to <span class="taxon">Herpestes fasciatus</span>,
because the name <span class="taxon">mungo</span> was not &#8220;classical.&#8221;
He repeats the geographical error: &#8220;<span lang="fr">La mangouste à bandes est particuliére à
l’Inde.</span>&#8221;<sup><a href="#footnote.11" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[11]</a></sup>
Fischer (<a id="gnames.p4.bib3" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#fischer-1829" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1829</time>,
page 163</a>), six years later, under
<span class="taxon">Mangusta mungo</span>, says:
&#8220;<abbr>Hab.</abbr> in India orientali.&#8221;
In fact, the real habitat of La Mangouste, alias Mangouste à bandes; was first made known by Ogilby in
<time>1835</time>, when in an account
of a collection of mammals collected in Gambia
(<a id="gnames.p4.bib4" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#ogilby-1835" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1835, 101</a>),
he says:</p>
<blockquote id="gnames.bq1">
&#8220;<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rendall has brought over specimens
of two <span id="gnames.bq1.tax1" class="taxon">Herpestes</span>, one of which, the <span id="gnames.bq1.tax2" class="taxon">Herpestes Mongos</span>
of Linnæus, very well figured and described by Buffon (<abbr>Hist.</abbr> <abbr>Nat.</abbr>, <abbr>tom.</abbr> xiii,
<abbr>tab.</abbr> 19), deserves to be noticed, for the purpose of correcting the
habitat of the species, which, upon Buffon’s authority, has hitherto
been given as India, but which Mr. Rendall’s specimens clearly show
to be the west coast of Africa. The mistake originally arose from
Buffon’s having identified the <em>Mangouste à bandes</em>, the species under
consideration, with the <span id="gnames.bq1.tax3" class="taxon">Mongos</span> of Kæmpfer, unquestionably an Indian
<span id="page29" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="29"/>
species (the <span id="gnames.bq1.tax4" class="taxon">Herpestes griseus</span> of authors), and still commonly called
by that name in Upper India, where many natives and Europeans
keep it in a semidomesticated state, for the purpose of destroying vermin. &#8230;&#8221;</blockquote>
    <p id="gnames.p5">Thomas, in <time>1882</time>, in his important paper &#8216;On the African Mongooses&#8217;
said, under <span class="taxon">Crossarchus fasciatus</span>
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#thomas-1882" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1882</time> page 91</a>):</p>
<blockquote id="gnames.bq2">
&#8220;This species by its locality, and not <span class="taxon"><abbr>C.</abbr> zebra</span>,
no doubt represents the early-known &#8216;<span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span>&#8217;
which was said to come from the &#8216;East Indies.&#8217; No cross-striped
Mungooses, however, are known from India, and the original specimens
must have been obtained from the Cape. &#8230; Probably,
however, tame examples were sometimes brought down to Capetown,
where they would be seen by the earlier travellers.&#8221;
</blockquote>
    <p id="gnames.p6">Thomas was so fully convinced that the <span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> Gmelin is the
<span class="taxon">Crossarchus fasciatus</span>
of later writers that he felt called upon to explain in a
footnote his reason for ignoring the rule of priority in this case and
accepting <span class="taxon">fasciatus</span> instead of <span class="taxon">mungo</span>,
as follows: &#8220;This name &#8216;<span class="taxon">mungo</span>&#8217;
is so utterly barbarous, and that of <span class="taxon">fasciatus</span> so well known, that I
think we are justified in ignoring it and using Desmarest’s classical
and appropriate term&#8221; (<abbr>l. c.</abbr>, footnote to page 90).</p>
    <p id="gnames.p7">The status of <span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> ( = La Mangouste of Buffon and
Daubenton) has a vital bearing on the correct application of the generic name
<span class="taxon">Mungos</span>, revived in <time>1907</time> to replace
<span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> Illiger (<time>1811</time>).
It also has an equally important bearing on the specific name of the
&#8216;Common Mongoose&#8217; of India.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p8">The genus <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>, like many of the early genera of post-Linnean
origin, was introduced rather informally and without much detail by
E. Geoffroy and G. Cuvier in their
&#8216;<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#geoffroy_cuvier-1795" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Memoire
sur une nouvelle division des Mammifères</a>&#8217;
in the &#8216;Magasin Encyclopédique&#8217; in <time>1795</time>. This
memoire is stated by the authors to be merely a sketch or outline to be
amplified later, and that some of the genera are presented provisionally.
The higher groups are only briefly characterized, and their content
indicated by an enumeration of the genera, designated only by
vernacular names, followed by technical names in parentheses, of the
species respectively referred to them. The following are examples
from the Plantigrades (<abbr>l. c.</abbr>, page 184):
&#8220;
<span role="list" lang="fr">
  <span role="listitem">&#8230;</span>
  <span role="listitem">les ours (<span class="taxon">ursus</span>, <abbr  title="Linné">L.</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">les ratons (<span class="taxon">ursus lotor</span>, <abbr  title="Linné">L.</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">les coatis (<span class="taxon">viverrae nasua</span>, <span class="taxon">narica</span>,
<span class="taxon">tetradactila et vulpecula</span>, <abbr title="Linné">L</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">les blaireaux (<span class="taxon">ursus meles</span>, <abbr>etc</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8230;</span>
  <span role="listitem">les mangoustes (<span class="taxon">viverra ichneumon et mungos</span>)</span></span><sup><a href="#footnote.12" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[12]</a></sup>:
&#8230;&#8221;</p>
    <span id="page30" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="30"/>
    <p id="gnames.p9">The 10 genera referred to the Plantigrades follow in a single column, the vernacular names standing first and the technical equivalent following it in parenthesis, thus:</p>
    <ol class="plantigrades">
      <li>&#8220;Ours (<span class="taxon">Ursus</span>). <em>[[Bear]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Raton (<span class="taxon">Lotor</span>). <em>[[Raccoons]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Glouton (<span class="taxon">Gulo</span>). <em>[[Wolverine]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Blaireaux (<span class="taxon">Taxus</span>). <em>[[Badger]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Mangouste (<span class="taxon">Mungos</span>). <em>[[Mongoose]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Coati (<span class="taxon">Nasua</span>).</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Kincajou (<span class="taxon">Potos</span>).</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Taupe (<span class="taxon">Talpa</span>). <em>[[Mole]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Musaraigne (<span class="taxon">Sorex</span>). <em>[[Shrew]]</em></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">&#8220;</span>Hërrisson (<span class="taxon">Erinaceus</span>).&#8221; <em>[[Hedgehog]]</em></li>
    </ol>
    <p id="gnames.p10">Four of these genera are credited to Linne; two (<span class="taxon">Gulo</span>, <span class="taxon">Nasua</span>)
date from Storr (<time>1780</time>); the other four (<span class="taxon">Lotor</span>, <span class="taxon">Taxus</span>,
<span class="taxon">Mungos</span>, <span class="taxon">Potos</span>) first
appear here, but two of them are antedated by names given by Storr (<span class="taxon">Lotor</span> by
<span class="taxon">Procyon</span>, <span class="taxon">Taxus</span> by <span class="taxon">Meles</span>), leaving two,
<span class="taxon">Mungos</span> and <span class="taxon">Potos</span>,
both in current use. <span class="taxon">Potos</span> was monotypic, with &#8220;<span class="taxon">Viverra caudivolvula</span>,
<abbr  title="Linné">L.</abbr>&#8221; as type. <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> contained two species,
<span class="taxon">Viverra ichneumon</span> Linné and <span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> Gmelin.
<span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> is therefore automatically the genotype of <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>.
Furthermore, <span class="taxon">Viverra mungo</span> is not a species of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> Illiger
(type, <span class="taxon">Viverra ichneumon</span> Linné, by several &#8220;subsequent designations&#8221;), it being
noncongeneric with the genotype of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p11">As already shown, &#8216;La Mangouste&#8217; of Buffon and Daubenton is the banded mongoose of Africa, the
<span class="taxon">Crossarchus fasciatus</span> of current nomenclature, which should henceforth bear the name
<span class="taxon">Mungos mungo</span> (Gmelin). <span class="taxon">Ariela</span> Gray (<time>1864</time>)
is a synonym of <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>, having been
especially founded for the South African banded mongoose (<span class="taxon">Ichneumon tænionotus</span> A. Smith)
under a misapprehension of its real characters. <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> of Gray
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#gray-1864" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1864</time> pages 575&#8211;577</a>),
it singularly happens, is essentially the <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> of Geoffroy and Cuvier,
although Gray apparently knew nothing of the <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> of these earlier
French authors, this agreement being apparently a coincidence. Under his
<span class="taxon">Mungos fasciatus</span> Gray placed <span class="taxon">Herpestes mungo</span> Desmarest, thus
rendering this species, under modern rules, automatically the genotype
of his genus <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p12">The restoration of <span id="gnames.p12.tax1" class="taxon">Mungos</span> to its proper place in nomenclature need
not in the least disturb the stability of <span id="gnames.p12.tax2" class="taxon">Crossarchus</span> F. Cuvier (<time>1825</time>),
which has, by monotypy, <span id="gnames.p12.tax3" class="taxon">Crossarchus obscurus</span> F. Cuvier as its
genotype, for which and later described allied forms it should be retained.
As thus restricted <span id="gnames.p12.tax4" class="taxon">Crossarchus</span> forms a group very different from the
banded mongooses for which <span id="gnames.p12.tax5" class="taxon">Mungos</span> is available and to which it should
be restricted. Gray showed good judgment in separating the two
<span id="page31" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="31"/>
groups generically. Attention has recently been called to the generic
distinctness of these groups by
Pocock<sup><a href="#footnote.4" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[4]</a></sup>
he adopting for the banded
mongooses Gray’s unavailable name <span  id="gnames.p12.tax6" class="taxon">Ariela</span>. He also calls attention
to the fact that the inclusion of the two groups under <span id="gnames.p12.tax7" class="taxon">Crossarchus</span>
was due to erroneous information concerning the structure of the anal
glands. Before meeting with Pocock’s paper I had become strongly
impressed with their incongruity and their evident generic distinctness.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p13"><span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> Illiger (1811),
genotype,<sup><a href="#footnote.5" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[5]</a></sup>
<span class="taxon">Viverra ichneumon</span> Linné, after
almost universal employ for three fourths of a century, was hastily
and, as it now appears, needlessly displaced in
<time>1907</time><sup><a href="#footnote.6" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[6]</a></sup>
by <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>
Geoffroy and Cuvier and immediately the latter became current for
the greater part of the mongooses of both Africa and Asia. It should
now be returned to its time-honored place in nomenclature, through
the allocation of <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> to its proper station.</p>
    <p id="gnames.p14">As already shown, not only is <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> untenable as a genus name
for any Indian mongoose, but also the species name <span class="taxon">mungo</span> is equally
a misnomer when applied in the same connection, it belonging unquestionably
to the banded mongoose group of Africa.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="footnotes" aria-label="African Carnivora Footnotes">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1] <span lang="fr">Nouveau Tableau Du Règne Animal: Mammifères</span>, <a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#lesson-1842" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1842, page 72</a>.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2] See, for example, the well-known figure in Flower and Lydekker’s &#8216;Mammals Living and Extinct,&#8217;
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#flower_lydekker-1891" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1891</time>, page 568, figure 261</a>) &#8220;of the palate of <span class="taxon">Lutra cinerea</span>,&#8221; reproduced from &#8216;Palæontologia India.&#8217;</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 3" id="footnote.3" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[3] Named for Professor
Henry Fairfield Osborn, President of the American Museum of Natural History, whose deep interest in the
American Museum Congo Expedition contributed greatly to its success in the field and later toward
the early publication of its scientific results.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 4" id="footnote.4" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[4] On the severance of <span class="taxon">Ariela</span> Gray (= <span class="taxon">Mungos</span> <abbr>s.s.</abbr>) from <span class="taxon">Crossarchus</span> see
Pocock (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#pocock-1916" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1916</time> page 350</a>)
and the text figures on (<abbr>l. c.</abbr> pages 353, 356, 360, 369).</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 5" id="footnote.5" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[5] By subsequent designation, Anderson
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#anderson-1878" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1878</time> page 171</a>); Thomas
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#thomas-1882" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1882</time> page 63</a>).</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 6" id="footnote.6" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[6] <abbr title="compare with">Cf.</abbr> Thomas[Wroughton]
(<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#wroughton-1907" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1907 page 119, footnote.</a>)</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 7" id="footnote.7" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[7] Translation: Varied coat of red and black, by transverse zones; pointed tail; pentadactyl feet.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 8" id="footnote.8" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[7] Translation: country</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 9" id="footnote.9" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[9] Translation: The East Indies</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 10" id="footnote.10" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[10] Translation: Individual that served as the subject of the previous description, and that of Buffon.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 11" id="footnote.11" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[11] Translation: The banded mongoose is endemic to India.</p></aside>
   <aside aria-label="Footnote 12" id="footnote.12" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[12] Translation:
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8230;</span>
  <span role="listitem">Bears (<span class="taxon">Ursus</span>, <abbr  title="Linné">L.</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">Raccoons (<span class="taxon">Ursus lotor</span>, <abbr  title="Linné">L.</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">Coatis (<span class="taxon">Viverrae nasua</span>, <span class="taxon">Narica</span>,
<span class="taxon">Tetradactila</span> and <span class="taxon">Vulpecula</span>, <abbr>L</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">Badgers (<span class="taxon">Ursus meles</span>, <abbr>etc</abbr>);</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8230;</span>
  <span role="listitem">Mongooses (<span class="taxon">Viverra ichneumon</span> and <span class="taxon">mungos</span>)</span></span></p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>