<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Bats from Mount Whitney, California</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="batsh1">
  <span id="page1" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="1"/>
  <h1 id="batsh1">Bats from Mount Whitney, California</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Glover M. Allen</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 1&#8211;5; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373713" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373713</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bmw01">Tejon Bat</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bmw02">White-edged Bat</a><ol type="a">
        <li><a href="#bmw02.type">Type Specimen</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.char">Characters</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.color">Color</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.membranes">Membranes</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.skull">Skull</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.msm">Measurements</a></li>
        <li><a href="#bmw02.remarks">Remarks</a></li>
      </ol></li>
      <li><a href="#bmw03">Interior Long-legged Bat</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bmw04">Large Brown Bat</a></li>
      <li><a href="#general">General Remarks</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p id="abstract.p1">In <time datetime="1915-07">July, 1915</time>, it was the writer’s privilege to accompany <abbr>Prof.</abbr>
Theodore Lyman on a brief expedition to Mount Whitney, the highest peak
in the United States outside of Alaska, lying near the southern end of
the Sierra Nevada of California. Starting from Lone Pine, at the
eastern foot, we ascended to the upper limit of timber and there
camped for a week or more by the outlet of a mountain lake, at an
altitude of about 11,000 feet. In successive evenings, four species of
bats were secured at this camp, one of which proves to be an unsuspected
new species, apparently related to
<span id="abstract.p1.tax1" class="taxon">Myotis lucifugus</span>. The
following brief notes are further offered as amplifying slightly the
distributional data lately published by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hilda W. Grinnell in her
excellent <span class="worktitle">Synopsis of the Bats of California</span>
(<a id="abstract.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#grinnell-1918" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1918</time></a>).
All the specimens obtained
were, through Doctor Lyman’s generosity, given to the Museum of
Comparative Zoölogy, at Cambridge, to the authorities of which I am
indebted for permission to publish this report.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="bmw01" aria-labelledby="bmw01h2">
    <h2 id="bmw01h2"><span class="taxon">Myotis yumanensis sociabilis</span> [H. W. Grinnell, <time>1914</time>]&#8212;Tejon Bat</h2>
    <p id="bmw01.p1">This form of the Yuma bat is characterized by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell as
intermediate in color between typical <span class="taxon">yumanensis</span> and its subspecies
<span class="taxon">saturatus</span>. She indicates its range as the &#8220;semi-arid Transition and
Sonoran zones in [southern] California west and north of the
southeastern deserts.&#8221; On <time datetime="1915-07-16">July 16</time>, a bat which seems referable to this
race was shot just above our camp at 11,000 feet on Mount Whitney,
<span id="page2" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="2"/>
the highest recorded altitude for it in the state (though <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell
records one from 8500 feet in the San Bernardino Mountains). A
second individual was captured at Lone Pine at the foot of the mountain,
a few days later. Both are males.</p>
    <p id="bmw01.p2">In her <span class="worktitle">Synopsis of the Bats of California</span>, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell cites but a
single specimen of typical <span id="bmw01.p2.tax1" class="taxon">yumanensis</span> from that State, namely, one
from Carroll Creek, Inyo County. In view of the implied distribution
of this form east of the desert divides, I at first was inclined to
refer the above specimens to it, but thanks to the generous interest of
<abbr>Mr.</abbr> A. Brazier Howell, of Covina, California, I have been able to
compare them with typical <span id="bmw01.p2.tax2" class="taxon">yumanensis</span> from near Potholes, a short
distance from Fort Yuma, Imperial County, the type locality. The skin from
Mount Whitney is noticeably darker, with slightly darker membranes,
thus inclining toward the race <span id="bmw01.p2.tax3" class="taxon">saturatus</span>. There is a very notable
difference, apparent in both skin and alcoholic, by which the two
specimens from Inyo County are further distinguished, namely, the much
larger thumbs with their longer, more curving claw. The thumb of
typical <span id="bmw01.p2.tax4" class="taxon">yumanensis</span> is nearly 1.5 to 2 <abbr>mm.</abbr> shorter, a difference very
apparent on comparison. Although direct comparison with typical
specimens of <span id="bmw01.p2.tax5" class="taxon">sociabilis</span> has not been made, it is clear that our Mount
Whitney and Lone Pine examples cannot be referred to <span id="bmw01.p2.tax6" class="taxon">yumanensis</span>
proper, and hence doubtless represent <span id="bmw01.p2.tax7" class="taxon">sociabilis</span>, the subspecies
intermediate in position between it and <span id="bmw01.p2.tax8" class="taxon">saturatus</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="bmw02" aria-labelledby="bmw02h2">
    <h2 id="bmw02h2"><span class="taxon">Myotis albicinctus</span> [<abbr>sp. nov.</abbr>]&#8212;White-edged Bat</h2>
    <section id="bmw02.type" aria-label="Type Specimen">
      <p><em>Type</em>.&#8212;An adult male, skin (and skull, temporarily mislaid), 11747 Museum of
Comparative Zoölogy, from 11,000 feet altitude at the upper limit of timber, Mount
Whitney, California, <time datetime="1915-07-14">July 14, 1915</time>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.char" aria-label="Characters">
      <p><em>Characters</em>.&#8212;A bat of the size and proportions of <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span>
but very pallid,
with conspicuous white border to the wing membranes, broadest between the
fifth finger and tarsus. Skull like that of <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span> but the two small anterior
premolars of the upper jaw relatively larger, the first drawn decidedly within
the posterior border of the canine, by which it is thus partly concealed in side
view.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.color" aria-label="Color">
      <p><em>Color</em>.&#8212;The type is a very pale clear sandy above, nearest the &#8220;pale buff&#8221; of
Ridgway’s <time>1912</time> Nomenclature of Colors, very slightly paler or grayer on the
head; below clear and contrasting white, the gray bases of the hairs showing
through on the throat. The basal portion of the fur of both surfaces is dark
slaty, paler or grayish at the throat.</p>
      <p>The ears are blackish as is also the greater part of the wing membranes. The
posterior edge of the wing from the tip of the longest (third) digit to the ankle
<span id="page3" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="3"/>
has a pronounced white border, narrow at the tip of the wing and not sharply
defined, but from the tip of the fifth finger to the tarsus, it is broad (1.5 <abbr>mm.</abbr>
in the dry skin), very sharply and contrastingly marked off. The <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#uropatagium" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">uropatagium</a>
is dusky on the basal third, passing into whitish on the distal two thirds, with a
clearer white edge.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.membranes" aria-label="Membranes">
      <p><em>Membranes</em>.&#8212;The ears and tragus are practically as in <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span>, and
minutely haired. The fur of the body extends very slightly on to the base of the
uropatagium, but is sharply limited at the sides of the body. The foot is
relatively large as in <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span>, the <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#calcar" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">calcar</a> long and slender, unkeeled, ending in
a minute projecting lobule. The extreme tip of the tail is free.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.skull" aria-label="Skull">
      <p id="bmw02.skull.p1"><em>Skull</em>.&#8212;Unfortunately the skull of the type has been temporarily mislaid.
The skull of a second specimen, however, (1023, collection of A. B. Howell) from
Mono County, California corresponds closely in size and shape with that of
<span id="bmw02.skull.p1.tax1" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus altipetens</span>,
but is at once distinguished by the relatively larger and
blunter first and second upper premolars (<span class="nomen">pm<sup>2</sup></span>, <span class="nomen">pm<sup>3</sup></span>).
In <span id="bmw02.skull.p1.tax2" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span> and its
western race both are fully visible in side view, and stand practically in the line
of the tooth row, the posterior tooth with perhaps one half the cross-section area
of the anterior. In <span id="bmw02.skull.p1.tax3" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> albicinctus</span>, however, the larger anterior tooth is distinctly
drawn in from the tooth row and shifted slightly forward, so that the anterior third
of its base is nearly concealed by the base of the canine when viewed in profile.
The second premolar is distinctly larger relatively, in cross section, than in
<span id="bmw02.skull.p1.tax4" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span>. As in the latter, and in contrast to
<span id="bmw02.skull.p1.tax5" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> subulatus</span>, the lower incisors are
but very slightly imbricate.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.msm" aria-label="Measurements">
      <p><em>Measurements</em>.&#8212;The type measured before skinning: total length, 86 <abbr>mm.</abbr>;
tail, 42.5; hind foot, 9; ear from meatus, 15; forearm, 37; tibia (dry), 16. The
specimen collected by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> A. B. Howell in Mono County, California, measured:
total length, 91 <abbr>mm.</abbr>; tail, 41; hind foot, 11; ear, 14; alar expanse, 255. Its
forearm measures 38 <abbr>mm.</abbr>, tibia, 17.5.</p>
      <p>The skull of the latter specimen (1023, collection of A. B. Howell), measures: greatest
length, 15; basal length, 12.5; palatal length, 7; upper tooth row,
<span class="nomen">i<sup>1</sup></span> to <span class="nomen">m<sup>3</sup></span>, 6.5;
width outside <span class="nomen">m<sup>3</sup></span>, 5.8; interorbital width, 3.8; zygomatic width, 9; mastoid width,
7.5; lower tooth row, <span class="nomen">i<sub>1</sub></span> to <span class="nomen">m<sub>3</sub></span>, 7.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="bmw02.remarks" aria-label="Remarks">
      <p id="bmw02.remarks.p1"><em>Remarks</em>.&#8212;This very beautiful new species is at once distinguished
from any of the described forms of North American <span class="taxon">Myotis</span> by its pale
buff coloration above, contrasting with the white lower surface, and
by the conspicuous and sharply defined white border of the wing
membranes, and the silvery uropatagium.</p>
      <p id="bmw02.remarks.p2">The type was shot at dusk as it was flying down the slope above
our camp at 11,000 feet on Mount Whitney. The locality was just
above a clump of pines that formed the upper limit of timber at the
lower end of a large valley encroaching upon the main peak. A rushing
mountain stream dashed past at this point and a large snow bank
still remained near by in mid-July.</p>
      <p id="bmw02.remarks.p3">The skull of this specimen after brief examination, was put aside for
cleaning but has been unfortunately mislaid. I had hesitated to
<span id="page4" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="4"/>
describe the species without comparison of the skull, but the capture of a
second example at Mammoth, Mono County, California, by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> A.
Brazier Howell of Covina, California, has happily made this possible.
Both <abbr>Dr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Joseph Grinnell, who have seen these two skins,
were inclined to refer them to
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax1" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus altipetens</span>, though
recognizing that they are quite different. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Howell has very generously
loaned me his specimen (taken on <time datetime="1917-08-02">August 2, 1917</time>) and it agrees in
every essential with the type, showing the same pale buffy coloration
above, pure white below, and conspicuous white border to the wing
membrane. In the dry skin, the uropatagium is a trifle darker owing
to its not being as completely spread. The beautifully prepared skull
has made possible a description of the conspicuous difference in the
upper premolars as compared with
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax2" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus altipetens</span>, a
specimen of which, identified by Doctor and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell, the Museum
has from Mount Tallac, California. In size and details of external
structure this species very closely resembles
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax3" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span> and
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax4" class="taxon"><abbr>M. l.</abbr> altipetens</span>
but in its coloration and in the relations of the first two
upper premolars it is widely different and is unquestionably a wholly
distinct species. As lately shown by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell, the race
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax5" class="taxon">altipetens</span>
is clearly only a pallid subspecies of
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax6" class="taxon">Myotis lucifugus</span>, from which it
chiefly differs in its tawnier coloration. The dark shoulder spot is a
distinguishing mark of the species, but no trace of such a contrasting
spot is found in
<span id="bmw02.remarks.p3.tax7" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> albicinctus</span>.</p>
      <p id="bmw02.remarks.p4">The pallid coloration of this bat may indicate that its main range
is in the desert country chiefly east of the Sierras.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="bmw03" aria-labelledby="bmw03h2">
    <h2 id="bmw03h2"><span class="taxon">Myotis longicrus interior</span> [Miller, <time>1914</time>]&#8212;Interior Long-legged Bat</h2>
    <p id="bmw03.p1">Two males were shot on different evenings
(<time datetime="1915-07-14">July 14</time> and <time datetime="1915-07-17">17</time>) at our
camp at 11,000 feet. One is much darker in coloration than the
other, apparently an immature though full-sized individual. The
other is a brighter tawny-olive than a specimen from Hot Springs
Pass, Mono County, in the Museum collection, taken as representing
typical
<span id="bmw03.p1.tax1" class="taxon">longicrus</span>. I have followed <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell in referring both to
the subspecies
<span id="bmw03.p1.tax2" class="taxon">interior</span>. In her <span class="worktitle">Synopsis of the Bats of California</span>,
she records it from the &#8220;arid Upper Sonoran, Transition, and lower
Canadian zones&#8221; from Mono County southward. The present
capture extends the limits of range to a record altitude. Our first specimen
was shot shortly after sundown while it was flying about among
<span id="page5" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="5"/>
the tops of the pines surrounding the camp. The flight is rather slow
and weak as compared with that of
<span id="bmw03.p1.tax3" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> lucifugus</span>. In addition to its
longer tibia and smaller hind foot, this species is easily distinguished
from the
<span id="bmw03.p1.tax4" class="taxon">lucifugus</span> group by its well-keeled calcar.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="bmw04" aria-labelledby="bmw04h2">
    <h2 id="bmw04h2"><span class="taxon">Eptesicus fuscus</span> [de Beauvois, <time>1796</time>]&#8212;Large Brown Bat</h2>
    <p>At our 11,000-foot camp, one or two large brown bats were seen
nearly every evening, distinguished by their size and relatively slow
steady flight. Of those shot only one, an adult male, was retrieved.
It is quite identical in color with two females shot at Lone Pine, at the
base of the mountain, and is not to be distinguished from eastern
skins. Thus the wide geographical range of the species corresponds
with its altitudinal distribution.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="general" aria-labelledby="generalh2">
    <h2 id="generalh2">General Remarks</h2>
    <p id="general.p1">It is probably significant that all five specimens
obtained at 11,000 feet on Mount Whitney, representing four species
of bats, are males. The presence of
<span id="general.p1.tax1" class="taxon">Myotis longicrus interior</span>,
<span id="general.p1.tax2" class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> yumanensis sociabilis</span>, and
<span id="general.p1.tax3" class="taxon">Eptesicus fuscus</span> above the Transition or
Lower Canadian zones appears to be unrecorded in California, yet all
three were collected in what would be considered for ground-living
mammals, a boreal (Hudsonian) zone. This wide range in altitudinal
distribution implies a certain disregard for the zonal limits which is
probably due to temporary increase in distributional area of insect
life, causing a temporary invasion by bats from the lesser altitudes.
As recorded by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell, of sixty-one bats of the race
<span id="general.p1.tax4" class="taxon">Myotis yumanensis sociabilis</span>
collected at Fort Tejon, <time datetime="1915-07-21">July 21</time> to <time datetime="1915-07-25">25</time>, all the
adults were females, thus indicating, as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Grinnell suggests, &#8220;that
with the approach of summer the full-grown [adult] males leave the
colony and forage singly at higher elevations.&#8221; That the breeding
females are more strictly confined to their proper &#8220;life zones&#8221; seems
likely and is corroborated by our observations on Mount Whitney,
where the few specimens taken proved to be males. It is well
known that the upper levels of mountains abound in insects, many of
which are wafted up by convectional diurnal air currents from below,
so that during the midsummer period they would form an attraction
to insectivorous bats, and thus afford cause for a local and seasonal
invasion by the non-breeding individuals. It was unexpected that we
should not have taken
<span id="general.p1.tax5" class="taxon">Myotis lucifugus altipetens</span> on Mount Whitney,
a species whose normal range includes high altitudes.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>