<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>By-Laws and Rules</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="brh2">
<span id="page49b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="49b"/>
<h1>American Society of Mammalogists</h1>
<p>Volume 1 pages 49&#8211;51</p>
<h2 id="brh2">By-Laws and Rules</h2>
<h3 class="time">Adopted <time datetime="1919-04-03">April 3, 1919</time></h3>
  <section id="bylaws" aria-labelledby="bylawsh2">
    <h2 id="bylawsh2">By-Laws</h2>
    <section id="article1" aria-labelledby="article1h3">
      <h3 id="article1h3">Article I. Name and Objects</h3>
      <p id="A1S1"><span class="sect"><abbr title="Section">Sec.</abbr> 1</span>.
This society shall be known as the American Society of Mammalogists.</p>
      <p id="A1S2"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 2</span>.
The object of the Society shall be the promotion of the interests of
mammalogy by holding meetings, issuing a serial or other publications, aiding
research, and engaging in such other activities as may be deemed expedient.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="article2" aria-labelledby="article2h3">
      <h3 id="article2h3">Article II. Membership</h3>
      <p id="A2S1"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 1</span>.
The Society shall consist of members, honorary members, and patrons.</p>
      <p id="A2S2"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 2</span>.
Any person may become a member of the Society upon recommendation
of two members and election at the next annual stated meeting, or by special
election at other times by a two-thirds vote of the Council, each Councilor
having been given thirty days notice. A member is entitled to vote for all officers
and to receive the serial publication of the Society.</p>
      <p id="A2S3"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 3</span>.
Honorary members shall be elected by a majority vote of the Society
upon unanimous recommendation of the Council in recognition of distinguished
services to mammalogy. They shall be exempt from all dues and shall be
entitled to all privileges of members except that they shall not be eligible to office
or to membership on the Council.</p>
      <p id="A2S4"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 4</span>.
Any person upon payment of one thousand dollars to the Society may,
upon recommendation of the Council, be elected a patron and shall be entitled
to all the privileges of a member, shall receive all publications of the Society,
and shall be exempt from membership fees.</p>
    </section>
    <span id="page50" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="50"/>
    <section id="article3" aria-labelledby="article3h3">
      <h3 id="article3h3">Article III. Officers</h3>
      <p id="A3S1"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 1</span>.
The officers of the Society shall be a President, two Vice-Presidents,
a Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary, and a Treasurer. These,
together with the Editor and ten persons elected from the Society at large, shall
constitute the Council or Board of Managers of the Society.</p>
      <p id="A3S2"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 2</span>.
The officers of the Society shall be elected annually and shall be
eligible for reelection; and such officers shall perform their duties until their
successors shall qualify. The Editor shall be appointed by the Council. Five
members of the Council shall be elected annually from the Society at large and
shall serve for two years. Officers shall be elected by a majority vote at the
annual meeting, and their official term shall commence at the close of the meeting
at which they are elected.</p>
      <p id="A3S3"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 3</span>.
Vacancies among the officers or in the Council may be filled temporarily
by appointment by the Council; but persons so appointed shall hold
office only until the next meeting of the Society.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="article4" aria-labelledby="article4h3">
      <h3 id="article4h3">Article IV. Meetings</h3>
      <p id="A4S1"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 1</span>.
An annual stated meeting shall be held in accordance with the action
of the Society at the preceding annual meeting. The Corresponding Secretary
shall give due notice of such meetings.</p>
      <p id="A4S2"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 2</span>.
A special meeting of the Society may be called at any time by order
of the Council, provided that notice of the purpose of the meeting has been
given at least thirty days in advance.</p>
      <p id="A4S3"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 3</span>.
Sections of the Society may be organized by five or more members in any
locality, with the approval of the Council of the Society in each case, for the
purpose of holding meetings for the presentation of papers or discussion.
Sections may have their own officers and rules, but such rules shall not conflict
with the By-laws or Rules of the Society. Each section shall present to the
Society an annual report of its activities.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="article5" aria-labelledby="article5h3">
      <h3 id="article5h3">Article V. Quorum</h3>
      <p>Twenty-five shall constitute a quorum of the Society and five a quorum of
the Council.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="article6" aria-labelledby="article6h3">
      <h3 id="article6h3">Article VI. Amendments</h3>
      <p>Amendments to these By-laws, recommended by the Council, may be adopted
at any annual stated meeting by a two-thirds vote of the members present,
provided that notice of each proposed amendment has been sent to each member two
months before the meeting.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="article7" aria-labelledby="article7h3">
      <h3 id="article7h3">Article VII. Rules</h3>
      <p>Upon recommendation of the Council, Rules may be adopted, amended, or
repealed at any annual stated meeting by a majority vote.</p>
    </section>
    <span id="page51" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="51"/>
    <section id="article8" aria-labelledby="article8h3">
      <h3 id="article8h3">Article VIII. Fees and Accounts</h3>
      <p id="A8S1"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 1</span>.
Annual dues for members shall be three dollars payable in advance.</p>
      <p id="A8S2"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 2</span>.
Any member upon payment of seventy-five dollars to the Society at
any one time shall be entitled to life membership, and shall be exempt from
membership dues.</p>
      <p id="A8S3"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 3</span>.
All moneys received from life members and patrons in consideration
of their election as such, and all gifts for undesignated purposes, shall be
invested as a permanent fund, the income of which may be used for special
purposes as directed by a three-fourths vote of the Council.</p>
      <p id="A8S4"><span class="sect"><abbr>Sec.</abbr> 4</span>.
The accounts of the Treasurer shall be audited as directed by the
Council at the close of each year before presentation at the annual stated meeting
of the Society.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="rules" aria-labelledby="rulesh2">
    <h2 id="rulesh2">Rules</h2>
    <section id="rule1" aria-labelledby="rule1h3">
      <h3 id="rule1h3">Rule I. Election of Officers</h3>
      <p>The election of officers shall be conducted as follows:</p>
      <p>Nominations shall be made in each case by an informal ballot, and the result
announced by the Secretary, after which the first formal ballot shall be taken.</p>
      <p>In balloting for Vice-Presidents and the five additional members of the
Council, each member shall write on one ballot as many names as there are officers to
elect, namely, two on the first ballot for Vice-Presidents and five on the first
ballot for members of the Council; and on each subsequent ballot as many names
as there are officers still to be elected. Those persons who receive a majority
of the votes cast shall be declared elected, providing that the number of persons
receiving a majority does not exceed the number of persons to be elected, in
which case the vacancies shall be filled by the candidates receiving the highest
majorities.</p>
      <p>If in any case the informal ballot result in giving a majority for one or more
of the persons balloted for, it may be declared formal by a majority vote.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rule2" aria-labelledby="rule2h3">
      <h3 id="rule2h3">Rule II. Order of Business</h3>
      <p>The order of business at the annual stated meeting unless changed by a
two-thirds vote of members present shall be as follows:</p>
      <ol>
        <li id="order01">Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting.</li>
        <li id="order02">Report of the Recording Secretary.</li>
        <li id="order03">Report of the Corresponding Secretary.</li>
        <li id="order04">Report of the Treasurer.</li>
        <li id="order05">Election of members.</li>
        <li id="order06">Election of officers and members of the Council.</li>
        <li id="order07">Appointment of committees.</li>
        <li id="order08">Report and recommendations of the Council.</li>
        <li id="order09">Action on business reported from the Council.</li>
        <li id="order10">Consideration of amendments to By-laws and Rules.</li>
        <li id="order11">Reports of committees.</li>
        <li id="order12">New and unfinished business.</li>
        <li id="order13">Reading of minutes of the meeting.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>