<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Editorial Comment</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="edh1">
<span id="page47b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="47b"/>
<h1 id="edh1">Editorial Comment</h1>
<p>Volume 1 pages 47&#8211;49</p>
<hr />
<p>The American Society of Mammalogists was founded at Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr>,
<time datetime="1919-04-03">April 3, 1919</time>.
After much preliminary work, the committee appointed to consider
plans for the organization of such a society issued a call for a meeting on
<time datetime="1919-04-03">April 3</time> and <time datetime="1919-04-04">4, 1919</time>,
at the National Museum. Over 250 favorable responses were
received before <time datetime="1919-04-03">April 3</time>,
and sixty persons from many parts of the United States
and Canada were present for the opening meeting on that day. Plans for the
Society were perfected, officers elected, committees formed, and by-laws and
rules were adopted. The objects of the Society were declared to be &#8220;The
promotion of the interests of mammalogy by holding meetings, issuing a serial or
other publications, aiding research, and engaging in such other activities as
may be deemed expedient.&#8221; Systematic work, life history and habits of
mammals, evolution, palæontology, anatomy, and every phase of technical and
popular mammalogy are to come within the scope of the society and its
publications. New members and advance subscriptions for the Journal have been
steadily received since the organization meeting and the permanent success of
the Society and its publications seems assured.</p>

<p>One of the principal objects of the Society is the publication of the Journal
of Mammalogy. It is aimed to make this journal indispensible to all workers in
every branch of mammalogy and of value to every person interested in
mammals, be he systematist, palæontologist, anatomist, museum or zoological
<span id="page48" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="48"/>
garden man, sportsman, big game hunter, or just plain naturalist. Toward this
end the help of each member and friend of the society is urged. General articles
on mammals, recent and fossil, are solicited for publication, and authoritative
papers on all branches of the study can be used. Papers of general interest on
life-histories, distribution, and habits are particularly needed, in order that the
Journal may not be overbalanced with purely technical matter. It is
comparatively easy to get manuscripts of systematic papers, but those members of
the Society who are active in other branches of the study must help if the Journal
is to be of interest to all. The departments reserved for General Notes and
Correspondence can be made especially interesting. There are hundreds of
good &#8220;general notes&#8221; of value if members will take the time to write them up
for publication. The Committee on Publications will gladly receive any
suggestions for the improvement of the Journal.</p>
<p>Each member is requested to endeavor to obtain new members for the Society
and subscriptions from institutions and libraries where full sets will eventually
be needed. Obviously there can be no &#8220;free list&#8221; for such a publication until
it is well on its feet, and the early numbers of biological publications have a
way of becoming in a short time excessively rare and difficult to obtain. Take
your copy to the authorities in charge of libraries and institutions and urge
their subscriptions, to begin with the first number. The fee for Life
Membership is seventy-five dollars, and several have been elected to this class.</p>

<p>Members of the Society are indebted to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ernest Thompson Seton for the
drawing of the prong-horn antelope for the front cover decoration. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Seton
is an enthusiastic supporter of the new Society, has qualified for Life
Membership, and promises some illustrated articles for future numbers of the Journal.
He has recently been honored by
La Société nationale d’Acclimatation de France
for his successful researches in the breeding of fur-bearing animals and has
received the Silver Medal. The award was decided upon in <time>1914</time>, but on account
of the war the presentation was postponed. The medal bears the date of <time>1918</time>,
and is the first official French Peace Decoration received by an American since
the signing of the armistice. The French authorities see in fur farming an
opportunity for crippled soldiers. Mr. Seton’s experiments during the past ten
years or more have been chiefly with minks, martens, foxes, and skunks.</p>

<p>One of the first acts of the Society after organization, was to elect as an
Honorary Member <abbr>Dr.</abbr> J. A. Allen, of the American Museum of Natural History,
New York. Doctor Allen was the only person elected to this class.</p>

<p>The Annual Meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists for <time>1920</time> will
be held in New York City at a date to be determined later by the Council.</p>

<p>So many systematic mammalogists believe in the &#8220;test of intergradation&#8221; as
the only criterion for the recognition of subspecies, that some interesting
correspondence in the Journal should result from Doctor Merriam’s paper in this
issue. The opinion in this matter is pretty deeply grounded in the minds of the
majority of American workers and is no doubt in a great measure due to the
definite stand taken by the committee which framed the original <abbr>A. O. U.</abbr> Code
of Nomenclature. The remarks of this committee under Canon XI were to the
effect that &#8220;the kind or quality, not the degree or quantity, of difference of one
<span id="page49" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="49"/>
organism from another determines its fitness to be named trinomially rather
than binomially. &#8230; In a word, <em>intergradation</em> is the touchstone of
trinomialism.&#8221; The later <abbr>A. O. U.</abbr> committee, which prepared the Revised
Edition of the Code, accepted these remarks without change, but added that
&#8220;two kinds of intergradation, however, may be recognized;
<span role="list"><span role="listitem">(1) ordinary or geographic intergradation, and</span>
<span role="listitem">(2) intergradation due to individual variation in forms inhabiting
isolated areas.</span></span>&#8221;
Doctor Merriam is of course right in his
statement that intergradation is often assumed rather than proved. But at
any rate the author of a revision, by the use of the trinomial, can show that he
<em>believes</em> that intergradation does take place as indicated; and as he has given
the group close study and not infrequently has examined a very large amount of
material, his opinion on the matter would seem to have a certain definite value
to others.</p>

<p class="NH">&#8212;<abbr title="N. Hollister">N.H.</abbr></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>