<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Notes on the Fox Squirrels of Southeastern United States</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="fsh1">
  <span id="page36b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="36b"/>
  <h1 id="fsh1">Notes on the Fox Squirrels of Southeastern United States, with Description of a New Form from Florida</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Arthur H. Howell</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 36&#8211;38 <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373719" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373719</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#sna"><span class="taxon">Sciurus niger avicennia</span> <abbr>subsp. nov.</abbr></a><ol type="a">
        <li><a href="#sna.type">Type Specimen</a></li>
        <li><a href="#sna.dot">Description of type</a></li>
        <li><a href="#sna.measurements">Measurements</a></li>
      </ol></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p id="abstract.p1">The fox squirrels, throughout the greater part of their range in
southeastern United States, dwell almost exclusively in open pine
forests. In the mountainous regions of northern Alabama they are
found to some extent in mixed timber (oaks, hickories, pines, <abbr>etc.</abbr>),
and in central and southern Florida they inhabit also cypress swamps.
On the southwest coast of Florida a well marked form has developed
in the damp, dark forests of black- and red-mangrove which extend
practically without a break from Marco Pass to Cape Sable and around
the southern end of the peninsula to the shores of Biscayne Bay on the
east coast.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p2">In this region the animal is known as the &#8216;black magrove squirrel&#8217;
and is said to be not uncommon. Several days spent in hunting
through these mosquito-infested forests resulted, however, in seeing
only one of the squirrels, which escaped before I could get a shot at it.
The type was secured for me by an Indian boy, who knew where its
home tree was located. Another specimen, examined while at Everglade,
agreed closely with the type.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p3">The National Museum collection (including that of the Biological
Survey) contains a large series of fox squirrels from various parts of
Florida and a few from southern South Carolina&#8212;the type region of
<span id="abstract.p3.tax1" class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span>.
Through the courtesy of the authorities of the Museum
<span id="page37" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="37"/>
of Comparative Zoology, I have been enabled to examine, also, a fine
series of 12 specimens from the coast region of Georgia (Barrington and
Hursman’s Lake).</p>
    <p id="abstract.p4">Typical
<span id="abstract.p4.tax1" class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span>
is subject to great variation in color and
exhibits three well-marked color phases. These may be called the
gray phase, the buff phase, and the black or melanistic phase. The
gray phase, in its extreme form (specimen from Georgetown, <abbr>S. C.</abbr>,
in Biological Survey Collection) is pale smoke gray above, including
the tail, and white beneath. The crown is black or blackish and the
nose, ears, and feet white. Some specimens in this phase have the feet
and under side of tail buff, thus approaching the next darker phase.
In the buff phase, the general tone of the upperparts is pinkish buff,
the underparts, feet, and underside of tail rich cinnamon-buff or clay
color. Numerous intermediate specimens connect this phase with the
gray phase. The black or melanistic phase&#8212;well-known as occurring
frequently in many species of squirrels&#8212;is wholly or partly black or
dark brown, except the nose and ears, which are white. The large
series from northern and middle Florida agrees quite closely with the
series from South Carolina and Georgia except that the gray individuals
are darker above and tinged with buff below. Both the gray
and the buff phases are represented, the latter, however, more
numerously.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p5">The new race is much deeper colored than any of the series of
<span id="abstract.p5,tax1" class="taxon">niger</span>;
it is apparently restricted in its typical form to the mangrove swamps,
for numerous specimens examined from the pine and cypress forests of
Lee and Dade counties, Florida, are variously intermediate between
<span id="abstract.p5.tax2" class="taxon">niger</span> and
<span id="abstract.p5.tax3" class="taxon">avicennia</span>, many of them indistinguishable in color from
<span id="abstract.p5.tax4" class="taxon">niger</span>, although always smaller.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="sna" aria-labelledby="snah2">
    <h2 id="snah2"><span class="taxon">Sciurus niger avicennia</span><sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup> <abbr>subsp. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <p class="bcname">Mangrove Fox Squirrel</p>
    <section id="sna.type" aria-labelledby="sna.type.label">
      <p id="sna.type.p1"><em id="sna.type.label">Type</em>, <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 231498, <abbr>U. S.</abbr>
National Museum, Biological Survey Collection; male adult, skin and skull, from Everglade, Lee County, Florida; collected
<time datetime="1919-03-14">March 14, 1919</time>, by A. H. Howell; original number 2325.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="sna.characters" aria-labelledby="sna.characters.label">
      <p id="sna.characters.p1"><em id="sna.characters.label">Characters</em>.&#8212;Similar to
<span id="sna.characters.p1.tax1" class="taxon">Sciurus niger niger</span> but decidedly smaller; coloration
much darker (more tawny) both above and below; feet clearer white (less
tinged with buff).</p>
    </section>
    <span id="page38" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="38"/>
    <section id="sna.dot" aria-labelledby="sna.dot.label">
      <p id="sna.dot.p1"><em id="sna.dot.label">Description of type</em>.&#8212;Nose, lips, and front of face white; ears white, with a
patch of cinnamon-buff at base; head and fore back black, sprinkled with
cinnamon; hinder back cinnamon, shading on sides to orange-cinnamon; front legs
blackish, washed with orange-cinnamon, the feet and toes white, faintly shaded
with buff; hind legs orange-cinnamon shaded with black; hind feet blackish,
mixed with grayish white and broadly edged with whitish; toes white; thighs
with a long black patch on outer side; tail above, orange-cinnamon, mixed with
black (the bases of the hairs black) shading on sides to hazel; under surface of
tail rich tawny, the hairs with a subterminal band of black; terminal central
portion of tail white for about 3 inches; underparts dull orange-cinnamon,
washed on throat and breast with black and white.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="sna.measurements" aria-labelledby="sna.measurements.label">
      <p id="sna.measurements.p1"><em id="sna.measurements.label">Measurements</em>.&#8212;Type (adult male):
        <span role="list">
          <span role="listitem">Total length, 535;</span>
          <span role="listitem">tail vertebrate, 260;</span>
          <span role="listitem">hind foot, 75.</span>
        </span>
<em>Skull</em>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Occipito-nasal
          length, 535;</span>
          <span role="listitem">zygomatic breadth, 37.4;</span>
          <span role="listitem">mastoid breadth, 25.4;</span>
          <span role="listitem">interorbital breadth, 20.6;</span>
          <span role="listitem">least postorbital breadth, 19.5;</span>
          <span role="listitem">length of nasals, 25.2;</span>
          <span role="listitem">maxillary tooth row, 13.</span>
        </span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Mangrove Fox Squirrel Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1] In allusion to its favorite
haunts in forests of black mangrove (<span class="taxon">Avicennia nitida</span>).</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>