<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>A New Subspecies of Beaver from North Dakota</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ndbh1">
  <span id="page31b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="31b"/>
  <h1 id="ndbh1">A New Subspecies of Beaver from North Dakota</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Vernon Bailey</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 31&#8211;32; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373717" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373717</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#missouriensis"><span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span> <abbr>subsp. nov.</abbr></a><ol type="a">
        <li><a href="#type">Type Specimen</a></li>
        <li><a href="#general">General Characters</a></li>
        <li><a href="#color">Color</a></li>
        <li><a href="#skull">Skull</a></li>
        <li><a href="#measurements">Measurements</a></li>
      </ol></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p>In attempting to identify the beavers of North Dakota, for inclusion
in my report on the mammals of the State, I find it necessary to apply
a new subspecific name to those occupying the Missouri River drainage.
Strange to say the specimens show closer affinity with those of
the Rio Grande drainage, than with those in the same State in the
streams flowing into Hudson Bay. Under permit from the State Game
Commission, I was allowed to collect two specimens in Apple Creek,
about 7 miles east of Bismarck, and there are a number of additional
skulls from along the Missouri and Little Missouri Rivers. While it is
very desirable to obtain more material, and especially skins taken at
<span id="page32" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="32"/>
different seasons of the year, the specimens available at present are
sufficient to show reliable characters. A much more extended study
will be necessary to determine the limits of range of this form and
whether it conforms strictly to the drainage system of the Missouri
River or only a part of it. The form may be known by the following
description:</p>
  </section>
  <section id="missouriensis" aria-labelledby="missouriensish2">
    <h2 id="missouriensish2"><span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span> <abbr>subsp. nov.</abbr></h2>
    <section id="type" aria-label="Type Specimen">
      <p><em>Type</em> from Apple Creek, 7 miles east of Bismarck, North Dakota. Male,
immature. <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 205763, <abbr>U. S.</abbr> National Museum, Biological Survey Collection.
Collected <time datetime="1914-09-01">September 1, 1914</time>, by Vernon Bailey. Original <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 9,703.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="general" aria-label="General Characters">
      <p><em>General characters:</em>&#8212;Slightly smaller than <span class="taxon">canadensis</span>
and much paler and duller brown. Skull more triangular in outline, not so massive and heavy; much like
that of <span class="taxon">mexicanus</span>, shorter and heavier than that of <span class="taxon">frondator</span>.
From <span class="taxon">mexicanus</span> the colors differ in being noticeably duller and darker; from
<span class="taxon">frondator</span>, duller, and not so rusty.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="color" aria-label="Color">
      <p><em>Color</em> of type specimen in fresh short September fur, back from nose to tail,
rich hazel brown; duller on sides, and more yellowish on sides of face and neck;
lowerparts smoky grayish brown, with a touch of light chestnut at base of tail
and over tops of feet. Young of year almost exactly the same in coloration.
Specimens from the Yellowstone Park (Yanceys), in long winter fur, are slightly
brighter hazel over the back, but very similar otherwise.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="skull" aria-label="Skull">
      <p><em>Skull</em> of type specimen not sufficiently developed for fair comparison with
old individuals, but agreeing in general characters with adults from the same
region. A fully adult skull in the National Museum Collection, <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 2377, labeled
&#8220;Upper Missouri, Lieutenant Warren,&#8221; and another good skull from old Fort
Stevenson (McLean County), also show the triangular shape, light structure, and
narrow interorbital region of this form.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="measurements" aria-label="Measurements">
      <p><em>Measurements</em> of type in the flesh (probably 18 months old and not fully
grown)&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Total length, 900;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, 270;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind foot, 170;</span>
  <span role="listitem">naked part of tail,<span role="list">
    <span role="listitem">length, 230,</span>
    <span role="listitem">width, 130 <abbr>mm.</abbr></span>
  </span></span>
</span>
Skull,
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">basal length, 110;</span>
  <span role="listitem">nasals, 41 (22.4 wide);</span>
  <span role="listitem">zygomatic width, 87;</span>
  <span role="listitem">mastoid width, 60;</span>
  <span role="listitem">interorbital width, 21;</span>
  <span role="listitem">postorbital width of brain case, 45;</span>
  <span role="listitem">alveolar length of upper molar series, 27.5 <abbr>mm.</abbr></span>
</span>
Measurements of skull <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 2377, <abbr>U. S.</abbr> National Museum Collection, from
Upper Missouri,
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">basal length, 130;</span>
  <span role="listitem">nasals, 49;</span>
  <span role="listitem">zygomatic width, 102;</span>
  <span role="listitem">mastoid width, 67;</span>
  <span role="listitem">interorbital width, 25;</span>
  <span role="listitem">postorbital width of brain case, 48;</span>
  <span role="listitem">alveolar length of upper molar series, 32 <abbr>mm.</abbr></span>
</span>
Weight of type specimen estimated at 35 or 40 pounds.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>