<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Recent Literature</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/litcited.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="rech1">
<span id="page43" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="43"/>
<h1 id="rech1">Recent Literature</h1>
<p>Volume 1 pages 43&#8211;47</p>
<h2 class="time">(Received since <time datetime="1919-04-01">April 1, 1919</time>)</h2>
<div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#hollister-01">East African Mammals in the United States National Museum</a></li>
    <li><a href="#hall-01">The Adult Taenioid Cestodes of Dogs and Cats, and Related Carnivores in North America</a></li>
    <li><a href="#davis-01">Contributions to a Knowledge of the Natural Enemies of <span class="taxon">Phyllophaga</span></a></li>
    <li><a href="#other">List of Other Recent Titles</a></li>
  </ol>
</div>
  <section id="hollister-01" aria-labelledby="title1">
    <p class="bib">
      <span class="author">Hollister, N. (<time>1918</time>&#8211;<time>1919)</time></span>
      <span class="article" id="title1">East African Mammals in the United States National Museum</span>
      <span class="journal">Bulletin&#8212;United States National Museum</span>
      <span class="details">Volume 99</span>
      <span class="details">Part I. Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Carnivora (<time datetime="1918-08-16">August 1918</time>), pages 1&#8211;194, text figures 1&#8211;3, plates 1&#8211;55</span>
      <span class="details">Part II. Rodentia, Lagomorpha, and Tubulidentata (<time datetime="1919-05-16">May 1919</time>)</span>
      <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.5962/bhl.part.21107" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.5962/bhl.part.21107</a></span>
    </p>
    <p>This work, as represented by the two parts that have appeared, is a critical
list of 349 species and subspecies of East African mammals contained in the
United States National Museum and comprising the majority of those known.
The third part, as yet unpublished, will include the primates and ungulates,
and the whole will thus form the nearest approach to a technical compendium of
the mammals of this part of the world that can reasonably be hoped for at this
time. The area covered by the list is an arbitrary one including the political
divisions of Sudan, Somali, Abyssinia, Uganda, British East Africa, and
German East Africa. The treatment is largely critical and technical, serving to
coordinate a great part of the scattered work that has been done in recent years.
Besides lists of localities for each species, there is much miscellaneous biological
data mainly from the field notes of the collectors, and with each group of species
there is an extensive table of measurements of individual specimens, including a
large number of types. The extent and value of these tables may be indicated
by noting that for two subspecies of lions cranial and dental measurements
are given for no less than forty-six specimens. Another feature of great
usefulness is found in the half-tone plates of the skulls of type-specimens including
all those possessed by the Museum, sixty-three in Part I and seventy-five in Part
II. Most of these are shown in natural size and in two, or frequently three,
aspects. Those of Part I are uniformly of very high quality and, taken in
connection with the measurements, furnish a basis for comparison closely
approximating that of the specimens themselves. Those of Part II are in a number of
cases not so well executed as those of Part I.</p>
    <p>The labor connected with such a list as this is prodigious and, as the author
states, it involves &#8220;what amounts to monographic work in each group and
careful identification of every specimen.&#8221; That it has been exceedingly well done
is very evident to anyone having even a slight acquaintance with the field it
covers. The specimens upon which the list is based were mostly obtained in
recent years principally by two expeditions, the Smithsonian African
Expedition led by Colonel Roosevelt and the Paul J. Rainey Expedition, both of which
were accompanied by that experienced and successful collector, Edmund Heller.
They illustrate in a most convincing way the value of modern methods, of
trained workers, and of concentrated attack on a particular field. Of the 349
forms listed, 223, or 63 per cent, have been discovered and described in the last
ten years. Only 81, or 20 per cent, were known prior to the year 1900. The total
number of specimens examined was 6696. It is evident, therefore, that hopes
may not be wholly vain for a knowledge of the mammals of other continents
coordinate with that we now have for North America.</p>
    <p class="NH">&#8212;W. H. Osgood.</p>
  </section>
  <span id="page44" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="44"/>
  <section id="hall-01" aria-labelledby="title2">
    <p class="bib">
      <span class="author">Hall, Maurice C. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
      <span class="article" id="title2">The Adult Taenioid Cestodes of Dogs and Cats, and Related Carnivores in North America</span>
      <span class="journal">Proceedings of the United States National Museum</span>
      <span class="details">Volume 55, Number 2258 (<time datetime="1919-04-11">April 1919</time>), pages 1&#8211;94</span>
      <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/10088/15056" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/10088/15056</a></span>
    </p>
    <p>This paper includes descriptions of all the adult tapeworms of the super-family
<span class="taxon">Taenioidea</span> known to occur in dogs, cats, and related carnivores in North
America, together with species of the same superfamily not yet recorded as
present in North America, but found in other parts of the world, and liable to
occur in carnivores in this country. Secondary, as well as primary, hosts are
given. Since carnivores seldom prey upon carnivores, but may frequently prey
upon other mammals, and since the secondary host must be eaten by the
primary host, it follows that most of the secondary hosts belong to other orders of
mammals, more particularly to rodents, lagomorphs and ungulates. Of especial
interest to mammalogists is the list of both primary and secondary hosts (pages
79&#8211;84) in which are listed species of mammals belonging to twenty-one families,
only four of which are carnivores.</p>
    <p class="NH">&#8212;Hartley H. T. Jackson.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="davis-01" aria-labelledby="title3">
    <p class="bib">
      <span class="author">Davis, John J. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
      <span class="article" id="title3">Contributions to a Knowledge of the Natural Enemies of <span class="taxon">Phyllophaga</span></span>
      <span class="journal">Illinois Natural History Survey Bulletin</span>
      <span class="details">Volume 13, Number 5 (<time datetime="1919-02">February 1919</time>), pages 53&#8211;138, plates 3&#8211;15</span>
      <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2142/46065" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2142/46065</a></span>
    </p>
    <p>The mammalian enemies of the common white grub are discussed on pages 127&#8211;132.
The common skunk (<span class="taxon">Mephitis</span>) is considered the most important of
these, while the common mole (<span class="taxon">Scalopus aquaticus</span>) is rated second. Among
other mammals known to feed on the white grub are the raccoon, coyote, fox,
opossum, striped and Franklin’s ground squirrels (<span class="taxon">Citellus tridecemlineatus</span> and
<span class="taxon"><abbr>C.</abbr> franklini</span>), short-tailed shrew (<span class="taxon">Blarina brevicauda</span>),
badger and the domestic pig.</p>
    <p class="NH">&#8212;Hartley H. T. Jackson.</p>
  </section>
  <hr />
  <section id="other" aria-label="List of Other Recent Titles">
    <ul class="bib">
      <li id="allen-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Allen, Glover M. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">The American collared lemmings (<span class="taxon">Dicrostonyx</span>)</span>
          <span class="journal">Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 62, Number 13 (<time datetime="1919-02">February 1919</time>), pages 509&#8211;540; text figure 1; plates 1</span>
          <span class="note">Complete revision; one new species, <span class="taxon"><abbr>D.</abbr> exsul</span>, from <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence Island.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="allen-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Allen, Joel Asaph (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Nelson’s &#8220;Wild Animals of North America:&#8221; a review</span>
          <span class="journal">Natural History</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 19, Number 3 (<time datetime="1919-03">March 1919</time>), pages 330&#8211;333</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2246/6343" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2246/6343</a></span>
          <span class="note">Handle URI is for entire volume, not specific Number or Article</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="baylis-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Baylis, H. A. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">A remarkable <span class="taxon">Cysticercus</span> from a rare dolphin (<span class="taxon">Cysticercus tæniæ grimaldii</span>, Moniez <time>1889</time>)</span>
          <span class="journal">Annals and Magazine of Natural History</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 3, Issue 16 (<time datetime="1919-04">April 1919</time>) pages 417&#8211;424</span>
          <span class="note">Record of <span class="taxon">Lagenorhynchus acutus</span> on the Lincolnshire coast.</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/00222931908673838" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.1080/00222931908673838</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="cabrera-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Cabrera, Ángel (<time>1918</time>)</span>
          <span class="article" lang="es">Dos nuevos antílopes de la subfamilia <span class="taxon">Tragelaphinæ</span></span>
          <span class="journal" lang="es">Boletín de la Real Sociedad Española de Historia Natural</span>
          <span class="details" lang="es">Volumen 18 (<time datetime="1918-05">mayo 1918</time>), paginas 274&#8211;277</span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Tragelaphus scriptus heterochrous</span> from west slope of <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Elgon; <span class="taxon">Limnotragus spekei inornatus</span> from Northeastern Rhodesia.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="cabrera-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Cabrera, Ángel (<time>1918</time>)</span>
          <span class="article" lang="es">Sobre los <span class="taxon">Odocoileus</span> de Colombia</span>
          <span class="journal" lang="es">Boletín de la Real Sociedad Española de Historia Natural</span>
          <span class="details" lang="es">Volumen 18 (<time datetime="1918-06">junio 1918</time>), paginas 300&#8211;307
 plato 8</span>
          <span class="note">Key to the subspecies of <span class="taxon"><abbr>O. </abbr> gymnotis</span>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="castle-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Castle, W. E. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Siamese, an albinistic color variation in cats</span>
          <span class="journal">The American Naturalist</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 53, Number 626 (<time datetime="1919-05">May</time>&#8211;<time datetime="1919-06">June 1919</time>) pages 265&#8211;268</span>
          <span class="uri">JSTOR: <a href="https://www.jstor.org/stable/2456003" title="Internet Resource">2456003</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="earnshaw-01">
        <p class="bib"><span id="page45" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="45"/>
          <span class="author">Earnshaw, Frank L. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="details">See <a href="#lawyer_earnshaw-01">Lawyer and Earnshaw (<time>1919</time>)</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="fisheries-50">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Fisheries Service Bulletin <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 50</span>
          <span class="details"><time datetime="1919-07-01">July 1, 1919</time></span>
          <span class="note">Numbers of skins of fur seals taken on <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul and <abbr>St.</abbr> George Islands, Bering Sea, page 5.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="fisheries-51">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Fisheries Service Bulletin <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 51</span>
          <span class="details"><time datetime="1919-08-01">August 1, 1919</time></span>
          <span class="note">A shipment of mammal bones from the Pribilof Islands sold in San Francisco; notice of increased seal killings authorized, page 8.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="fisheries-52">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Fisheries Service Bulletin <abbr aria-label="number">&#8470;</abbr> 52</span>
          <span class="details"><time datetime="1919-09-02">September 2, 1919</time></span>
          <span class="details">(Annual <time>1919</time>, census of fur seals shows increase of 10 per cent over <time>1918</time>; report of skins taken during season, page 5.)</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="gidley-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Gidley, James Williams (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Significance of divergence of the first digit in the primitive mammalian foot</span>
          <span class="journal">Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 9, Number 10 (<time datetime="1919-05-19">May 1919</time>) pages 273&#8211;280</span>
          <span class="note">Argues against the arboreal ancestry of mammals</span>
          <span class="uri">JSTOR: <a href="https://www.jstor.org/stable/24521185" title="Internet Resource">24521185</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="giglio-tos-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author" lang="it">Giglio-Tos, Ermanno (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article" lang="it">A proposito del coniglio di Porto Santo e della realtà della specie</span>
          <span class="journal" lang="it">Revista Biologia, Roma</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 1, <abbr>fasc.</abbr> 1 (<time>1919</time>) pages 50&#8211;71</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="giuffrida-ruggeri-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author" lang="it">Giuffrida-Ruggeri, V. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article" lang="it">La controversia sul fossile di Piltdown e l’origine del philum umano</span>
          <span class="journal" lang="it">Monitore Zoologico Italiano</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 30 (<time>1919</time>) pages 7&#8211;18</span>
          <span class="note">Agrees with Miller that Piltdown skull and jaw can not belong to mammals of the same family.</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/38115#page/21/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 38115</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="graves_nelson-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Graves, Henry S. and Enoch W. Nelson (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Our national elk herds; a program for conserving the elk on national forests about the Yellowstone National Park</span>
          <span class="journal"><abbr>U. S.</abbr> Department of Agriculture</span>
          <span class="details">Circular 51 (<time datetime="1919-06">1919</time>) pages 1&#8211;34, figures 1&#8211;19</span>
          <span class="uri">Link: <a href="https://archive.org/details/ournationalelkhe51grav/page/n6/mode/2up" title="Internet Resource">https://archive.org/details/ournationalelkhe51grav/page/n6/mode/2up</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="gregory-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Gregory, William K. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">The evolution of the human face</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 19 (<time datetime="1919-04">April</time>&#8211;<time datetime="1919-05">May 1919</time>) pages 421&#8211;425</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2246/6343" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2246/6343</a></span>
          <span class="note">Handle URI is for entire volume, not specific Number or Article</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="grinnell-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Grinnell, Joseph</span>
          <span class="article">Five new five-toed kangaroo rats from California</span>
          <span class="journal">University of California publications in zoology</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 21 (<time datetime="1919-03-29">March 1919</time>) pages 43&#8211;47</span>
          <span class="uri">Link: <a href="https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100442583" title="Internet Resource">https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100442583</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Perodipus elephantinus</span>, <span class="taxon"><abbr>P.</abbr> swarthi</span>, <span class="taxon"><abbr>P.</abbr> dixoni</span>, <span class="taxon"><abbr>P.</abbr> leucogenys</span>, <span class="taxon"><abbr>P.</abbr> monoensis</span>, new species.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="Harner-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Harner, S. F. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Report on Cetacea stranded on the British coasts during 1918</span>
          <span class="journal">British Museum, London</span>
          <span class="details">Report Number 6 (<time datetime="1919-03-22">March 1919</time>) pages 1&#8211;24, figures 1&#8211;2, plate 1</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="Hay-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hay, Oliver P. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">On some proboscideans of the state of New York</span>
          <span class="journal">Science</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 49, Issue 1268 (<time datetime="1919-04-18">April 04, 1919</time>) pages 377&#8211;379</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1126/science.49.1268.377-a" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.1126/science.49.1268.377-a</a></span>
          <span class="note">Records of fossil remains of <span class="taxon">Elephas</span> and <span class="taxon">Mammut</span>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="Hay-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hay, Oliver P. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">On the relative ages of certain Pleistocene deposits</span>
          <span class="journal">American Journal of Science</span>
          <span class="details">Fourth Series, Volume 47 (<time datetime="1919-05">May 1919</time>), pages 361&#8211;375</span>
          <span class="uri">Link: <a href="https://archive.org/details/americanjourna4471919newh/page/360/mode/2up" title="Internet Resource">https://archive.org/details/americanjourna4471919newh/page/360/mode/2up</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="Hay-03">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hay, Oliver P. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Descriptions of some mammalian and fish remains from Florida of probably Pleistocene age</span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the United States National Museum</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 56 Issue 2291 (<time datetime="1919-07-31">July 1919</time>) pages 103&#8211;112, plates 26&#8211;28</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.5479/si.00963801.56-2291.103" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.5479/si.00963801.56-2291.103</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Thinobadistes</span>, a new genus of sloths, and <span class="taxon">Felis veronis</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="hollister-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hollister, N. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">The generic names <span class="taxon">Anoa</span> and <span class="taxon">Bubalus</span></span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 32 (<time datetime="1919-04-11">April 1919</time>) page 45</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/22875#page/67/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 22875</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Anoa</span> a valid genus.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="hollister-03">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hollister, N. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">A new name for the wild sheep of northeastern China</span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 32 (<time datetime="1919-04-11">April 1919</time>) page 46</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/22875#page/68/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 22875</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Ovis comosa</span> to replace <span class="taxon"><abbr>O.</abbr> jubata</span> Peters, preoccupied.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="hollister-04">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hollister, N. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">What kind of characters distinguish a species from a subdivision of a species</span>
          <span class="journal">Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 9, Number 8 (<time datetime="1919-04-19">April 1919</time>) page 235</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/18926#page/243/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 18926</a></span>
          <span class="note">From the standpoint of a mammalogist; in a symposium at a meeting of the Biological Society of Washington.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="hornaday-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Hornaday, William T. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Report of the Director of the Zoological Park to the Board of Managers</span>
          <span class="journal">Annual report of the New York Zoological Society</span>
          <span class="detaila">Report 23, 1918 (<time datetime="1919-01">January 1919</time>), pages 57&#8211;80</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/page/20540139#page/69/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">page 20540139</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="howell-01">
        <p class="bib"><span id="page46" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="46"/>
          <span class="author">Howell, Arthur H. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Descriptions of nine new North American pikas</span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 32 (<time datetime="1919-05-20">May 1919</time>) pages 105&#8211;110</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/22875#page/129/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 22875</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="jackson-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Jackson, Hartley H. T.</span>
          <span class="article">An unrecognized shrew from Warren Island, Alaska</span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 32 (<time datetime="1919-04-11">April 1919</time>) pages 23&#8211;24</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/22875#page/45/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 22875</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Sorex obscuris malitiosus</span>, <abbr>subsp. nov.</abbr></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="ladue-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">La Due, H. J. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Fur-farming possibilities</span>
          <span class="journal">Fins, Feathers and Fur</span>
          <span class="details">Number 18 (<time datetime="1919-06">June 1919</time>) pages 12&#8211;14</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015074971592" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2027/mdp.39015074971592</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lang-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Lange, Herbert (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">An okapi reared in captivity. A Belgian woman first to achieve success.</span>
          <span class="journal">Zoological Society Bulletin [New York]</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 22, Number 4 (<time datetime="1919-07">July 1919</time>) pages 71&#8211;73, figures 1&#8211;2</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/93752#page/253/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 93752</a></span>
          <span class="note">This young animal, captured in Belgian Congo and successfully reared, has since been received at the Zoological Garden in Antwerp.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="larue-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">La Rue, Carl D. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Monkeys as coconut pickers</span>
          <span class="journal">Science</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 50, Issue 1286 (<time datetime="1919-08-22">August 08, 1919</time>) page 187</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1126/science.50.1286.187" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.1126/science.50.1286.187</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lawyer_earnshaw-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Lawyer, <abbr>Geo.</abbr> A. and Frank L. Earnshaw (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Game laws for <time>1919</time>. A summary of the provisions of Federal, State, and Provincial statutes</span>
          <span class="journal"><abbr>U. S.</abbr> Department of Agriculture</span>
          <span class="details">Bulletin 1077 (<time datetime="1919-08">August 1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>HTDL</abbr>: <a href="https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/006563522" title="Internet Resource">Record 00653522</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lesouef-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">LeSouef, W. H. D. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Mammals of Australia in the Zoological Park</span>
          <span class="journal">Zoologica : scientific contributions of the New York Zoological Society</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 2, Issue 6 (<time datetime="1919-01">January 1919</time>) pages 167&#8211;201, figures 32&#8211;68</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/93726#page/239/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 93726</a></span>
          <span class="note">Account of the land mammals, exclusive of the bats, with valuable series of half-tone cuts of living specimens in New York and Melbourne gardens.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="longman-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Longman, Heber A. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article"><span class="taxon">Ziphius cavirostris</span> on the Queensland coast</span>
          <span class="journal">Proceedings of the Royal Society of Queensland</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 31 (<time datetime="1919-08-08">August 1919</time>) pages 90&#8211;93, plates 3&#8211;4</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/49178#page/100/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 49178</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lonnberg-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Lönnberg, Einar (<time>1918</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Mammifères recueillis dans la Région du Mont Elgon par le <abbr>D<span class="raisedr">r</span></abbr> Bayer, en <time>1914</time></span>
          <span class="journal">Revue Zoologique Africaine</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 5 (<time>1918</time>) pages 172&#8211;-192</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/42685#page/182/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 42685</a></span>
          <span class="note">New forms: <span class="taxon">Helogale percivali tenebrosa</span> and <span class="taxon">Tatera nigricauda bayeri</span>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lonnberg-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Lönnberg, Einar (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">On some mammals from the Argentine Chaco</span>
          <span class="journal">Arkiv för Zoologi</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 12, Number 10 (<time>1918</time>), pages 1&#8211;20, figures 1&#8211;5</span>
          <span class="note">Describes new forms of <span class="taxon">Mazama</span> and a new <span class="taxon">Cerdocyon</span>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="lord-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Lord, Clive E. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="details">See <a href="#scott_lord-01">Scott and Lord (<time>1919</time>)</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="luederwaldt-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Luederwaldt, H. (<time>1918</time>)</span>
          <span class="article" lang="pt-BR">Observações sobre a preguiça (<span class="taxon">Bradypus tridactylus</span>, <abbr title="Linné">L.</abbr>) em liberdade e no captiveiro</span>
          <span class="journal" lang="pt-BR">Revista do Museu Paulista</span>
          <span class="details" lang="pt-BR">Tomo 10 (<time>1918</time>), páginas 793&#8211;812</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/40848#page/927/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 40848</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="mills-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Mills, Enos A. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Pronghorn of the plains</span>
          <span class="journal">Saturday Evening Post</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 191 Number 45 (<time datetime="1919-05-08">May 10, 1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="note">Notes on life-history of <em>Antilocapra</em>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="mills-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Mills, Enos A. (<time datetime="1919">1919b</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Echo Mountain grizzly</span>
          <span class="journal">Saturday Evening Post</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 192 Number 13 (<time datetime="1919-09-24">September 27, 1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="note">The story of a Colorado grizzly bear.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="moodie-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Moodie, Roy L. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Anthony on the indigenous land mammals of Porto Rico</span>
          <span class="journal">Science</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 50, Issue 1282 (<time datetime="1919-07-25">July 25, 1919</time>), page 91</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1126/science.50.1282.91" title="Internet Resource">doi:10.1126/science.50.1282.91</a></span>
          <span class="note">Review.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="nelson-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Nelson, E. W. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="details">See <a href="#graves_nelson-01">Graves and Nelson (<time>1919</time>)</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="percival-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Percival, A. Blayney (<time>1918</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Game and disease</span>
          <span class="journal">The Journal of the East Africa and Uganda Natural History Society</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 6, Number 13 (<time datetime="1918-11">November 1918</time>), pages 302&#8211;315</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/204552#page/36/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 204552</a></span>
          <span class="note">Interesting and important account of disease epidemics among East African game mammals.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="roberts-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Roberts, Austin (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Descriptions of some new mammals</span>
          <span class="journal">Annals of the Transvaal Museum</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 6 Part 3 (<time datetime="1919-04">April 1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/202290#page/160/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 202290</a></span>
          <span class="note">New form each of <span class="taxon">Cistugo</span>, <span class="taxon">Eptesicus</span>, <span class="taxon">Chrysochloris</span>, <span class="taxon">Mungos</span>, and <span class="taxon">Otomys</span>, from South Africa.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="scott_lord-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Scott, H. H. and Clive E. Lord (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Studies of Tasmanian Cetacea. Part I. (<span class="taxon">Orca gladiator</span>, <span class="taxon">Pseudorca crassidens</span>, <span class="taxon">Globicephalus melas</span>)</span>
          <span class="journal">Papers and Proceedings of the Royal Society of Tasmania</span>
          <span class="details">1919 (<time datetime="1919-05-10">May 1919</time>) pages 1&#8211;17, plates 1&#8211;9</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/38347#page/15/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 38347</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="shufeldt-01">
        <p class="bib"><span id="page47" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="47"/>
          <span class="author">Shufeldt, R. W. (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">The chipmunk</span>
          <span class="journal">Country Life</span>
          <span class="details">Volume 35, Number 6 (<time datetime="1919-04">April 1919</time>), page 98 and 102</span>
          <span class="note">Notes on <span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="surber-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Surber, Thaddeus (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">The Pine County Game Refuge as a playground</span>
          <span class="journal">Fins, Feathers and Fur</span>
          <span class="details">Number 18 (<time datetime="1919-06">June 1919</time>) pages 1&#8211;4</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015074971592" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2027/mdp.39015074971592</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="surber-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Surber, Thaddeus (<time datetime="1919">1919b</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Additions to the mammalian fauna of Minnesota</span>
          <span class="journal">Fins, Feathers and Fur</span>
          <span class="details">Number 18 (<time datetime="1919-06">June 1919</time>) page 6</span>
          <span class="uri"><a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015074971592" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2027/mdp.39015074971592</a></span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="thomas-01">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Thomas, Oldfield (<time>1919</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">On small mammals from &#8220;Otro Cerro,&#8221; north-eastern Rioja, collected by <abbr>Sr.</abbr> L. Budin</span>
          <span class="journal">The Annals and magazine of natural history; zoology, botany, and geology</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 3, Number 17 (<time datetime="1919-05">May 1919</time>), pages 498&#8211;500</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/53477#page/547/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 53477</a></span>
          <span class="note">Nine new species of Neotropical mammals.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="thomas-02">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Thomas, Oldfield (<time datetime="1919">1919b</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">On a small collection of mammals from Lumbo, Mozambique</span>
          <span class="journal">The Annals and magazine of natural history; zoology, botany, and geology</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 4, Number 19 (<time datetime="1919-07">July 1919</time>), pages 29&#8211;34</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/53371#page/49/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 53371</a></span>
          <span class="note">New <span class="taxon">Helogale</span>, <span class="taxon">Paraxerus</span>, and <span class="taxon">Steatomys</span> from Portuguese East Africa.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="thomas-03">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Thomas, Oldfield (<time datetime="1919">1919c</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">A new species of <span class="taxon">Euneomys</span> from Patagonia</span>
          <span class="journal">The Annals and magazine of natural history; zoology, botany, and geology</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 4, Number 21 (<time datetime="1919-09">September 1919</time>), pages 127&#8211;128</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/53371#page/155/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 53371</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon"><abbr>E.</abbr> dabbenei</span> <abbr>sp. nov.</abbr> from Santa Cruz.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="thomas-04">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Thomas, Oldfield (<time datetime="1919">1919d</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">List of mammals from the highlands of Jujuy, North Argentina, collected by <abbr>Sr.</abbr> E. Budin</span>
          <span class="journal">The Annals and magazine of natural history; zoology, botany, and geology</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 4, Number 21 (<time datetime="1919-09">September 1919</time>), pages 128&#8211;135</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/53371#page/156/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 53371</a></span>
          <span class="note">New forms of <span class="taxon">Euneomys</span>, <span class="taxon">Hesperomys</span>, <span class="taxon">Eligmodontia</span>, <span class="taxon">Abracoma</span>, <span class="taxon">Lagidium</span>, and <span class="taxon">Galea</span>.</span>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li id="thomas-05">
        <p class="bib">
          <span class="author">Thomas, Oldfield (<time datetime="1919">1919e</time>)</span>
          <span class="article">Two new rodents from Tartagal, Salta, <abbr>N.</abbr> Argentina</span>
          <span class="journal">The Annals and magazine of natural history; zoology, botany, and geology</span>
          <span class="details">Series 9, Volume 4, Number 21 (<time datetime="1919-09">September 1919</time>), pages 154&#8211;156</span>
          <span class="uri"><abbr>BHL</abbr>: <a href="https://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/item/53371#page/182/mode/1up" title="Internet Resource">Item 53371</a></span>
          <span class="note"><span class="taxon">Akodon tartareus</span> and <span class="taxon">Ctenomys sylvanus</span>, <abbr>spp. nov.</abbr></span>
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>