<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Criteria for the Recognition of Species and Genera</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="speciesh1">
  <span id="page6" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="6"/>
  <h1 id="speciesh1">Criteria for the Recognition of Species and Genera</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by C. Hart Merriam</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 6&#8211;9; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373714" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373714</a></p>
  <hr />
  <p id="p1">In systematic work among animals and plants one is continually
confronted by the theoretical question: what shall constitute the
grounds for the segregation of forms into subspecies, species,
subgenera, genera, and higher groups; and by the practical question of
drawing dividing lines between the groups recognized. And in
examining series of closely related species from different localities, one is
often confronted by specimens that differ from the previously known
forms, so that it becomes necessary to ascertain whether the observed
peculiarities are genuine characters or merely individual variations.
If they are exhibited by several specimens and it is known that these
specimens came from the same area, the inference is that they represent
a form worthy of recognition by name. And if the differences are
comparatively slight&#8212;not of sufficient importance to be accorded full
specific rank&#8212;it is customary to assume the existence of intergrades and
call the form a geographic race or subspecies.</p>
  <p id="p2">Dividing lines are now drawn much finer than formerly, and in many
cases it is difficult to make up one’s mind whether to treat a particular
form as a species or a subspecies. When this has been decided, the
result is usually published and the matter dismissed. But the next
time the author has occasion to discuss the group, he is likely to find
that his viewpoint has changed, or that additional specimens give the
case a different aspect, so that the status of the form as previously
published requires readjustment. The author himself may make the
change, but if not, some other writer may be counted on to do it for
him. In other words, irrespective of the <em>stability</em> or <em>worth</em> of the form,
its <strong>rank</strong> is subject to change. This may be due to information afforded
by additional material, or to an altered point of view on the part of
the author&#8212;for we must remember that after all we ourselves are the
scales on which zoological characters are weighed, and that unhappily
we have no &#8216;Bureau of Standards&#8217; to adjust the balances of our
judgment.</p>
  <p id="p3">For guidance in deciding whether a form shall be treated as a full
species or a subspecies, two diametrically opposite methods have been
advocated&#8212;one <em>based on the presence or absence of intergrades</em>, the
other <em>on the degree of differentiation</em> of the form in question. While
<span id="page7" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="7"/>
from the theoretical standpoint these methods are as far apart as
possible, in practice they draw much nearer together. For in the great
majority of cases of alleged intergradation the intergradation is <em>assumed</em>
rather than <em>proved</em>, so that after all the student is influenced, albeit
unconsciously, by the <em>quantity of difference</em>&#8212;this being in reality the
determining factor in shaping his decision as to whether or not
intergradation exists.</p>
  <p id="p4">But in studying animals and plants, what difference does it make,
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">(a) whether the worker has before him actual intergrades, or</span>
  <span role="listitem">(b) whether the relationship between forms is so close that he feels
justified in assuming intergradation, or</span>
  <span role="listitem">(c) whether in fact at the present
moment of the world’s history intergradation does or does not exist</span></span>?
For is it not clear that in the course of evolution, intergrades, if not
now present, must have existed in the past, so that their remains are
likely to turn up at any moment? And is it not equally clear that if
we are to destroy species and genera because of the presence of intergrades,
it is only a matter of time before the discovery of living forms
or the accumulation of paleontological evidence will lead to the
abolition of a large proportion of our species and genera?</p>
  <p id="p5">To my mind, the <em>criterion of intergradation</em> is one of the most
pernicious that has ever been introduced into the systematic study of
animals and plants and one necessarily productive of an ever-changing
nomenclature. And furthermore, it has often resulted in bringing
together forms between which intergradation has not only <em>not</em> been
proved, but which in many cases never existed&#8212;the forms in question
having arisen from a common ancestry in the distant past, rather than
from one another under existing conditions. And even in the case of
forms presumably derived from one another under existing conditions,
what difference does it make whether the specimens at hand <em>prove</em>
intergradation, or whether the closeness of their interrelationship
<em>implies</em> that one is an offshoot of the other? <em>Is not the measure of
relationship</em> of more consequence than the accident of survival or
non-survival of intergrades?</p>
  <p id="p6">In practice, neither the criterion of intergradation nor that of degree
of divergence can claim immunity from the mistakes that come from
the study of inadequate material, nor from those due to the
idiosyncrasies of the personal equation, for until the arrival of the biological
millennium personal opinion is likely to govern the existence or
non-existence of intergrades and to stand in the way of agreement as to
the measure of difference necessary to the recognition of species and
genera.</p>
<span id="page8" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="8"/>
  <p id="p7">In the case of errors resulting from inadequate material&#8212;the hovering
demon of the systematic worker&#8212;no prophylactic treatment has
yet been discovered, though experience and judgment count for much in
lessening the frequency and severity of incorrect conclusions.</p>
  <p id="p8">The history of the progress of ornithology and mammalogy in
America proves that by the criterion of intergradation many forms
have been described as subspecies that later proved to be either
independent species or offshoots of species other than those to which they
were originally referred, <em>showing that it is the practice of naturalists to
<strong>assume</strong> intergradation rather than prove it</em>. The truth of this may be
demonstrated by an examination of the published records of specimens
examined, for while actual intergrades are often at hand, the
record shows that in the great majority of cases the author did not see
specimens from intermediate localities&#8212;the only localities from which
intergrades could possibly have come.</p>
  <p id="p9">W. H. Osgood, in his monographic <span class="worktitle">Revision of the Mice of the American
genus <span class="taxon">Peromyscus</span></span>, had before him the unparalleled collections of the
United States Biological Survey, supplemented by those of various
museums and individuals, amounting in all to upwards of 27,000
specimens. In studying this astounding wealth of material, covering
practically all parts of the North American continent, he
naturally found a large number of intergrades, in connection with which
circumstance he says: &#8220;Until recent years continuous and perfect
intergradation was demonstrable only in relatively few cases. And
even now, although proved beyond doubt in group after group, in
many cases it is merely taken for granted.&#8221;
(<a id="p9.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#osgood-1909" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1909</time> page 17</a>)</p>
  <p id="p10">More than twenty years ago, after serving for a number of years as a
member of the <abbr>A. O. U.</abbr> Committee on Nomenclature and Classification
of North American Birds, I was so impressed by the inconsistencies,
shiftings of rank, and illogical conclusions necessitated by the
intergradation rule that I published in <span class="workjournal">Science</span> the following protest
and suggestion:</p>
  <blockquote id="bq1">In practice it has been found that only in a small percentage of cases does
an author have at his command a sufficiently large series of specimens, from a
sufficient number of well-selected localities, to enable him to say positively
that related forms do or do not intergrade. The result of this obvious embarrassment
is that authors usually exercise their individual judgment as to the <em>probable</em>
existence or non-existence of intergradation, thus introducing the personal
equation it was hoped to avoid. &#8230; It would seem therefore &#8230;
<span id="page9" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="9"/>
that it would serve a more useful purpose if the terms species and subspecies
were so used as to indicate <em>degree of difference</em>, rather than the author’s opinion
as to the existence or non-existence of intergrades. &#8230; In my judgment,
forms which differ only slightly should rank as subspecies even if known
not to intergrade, while forms which differ in definite, constant and easily
recognized characters should rank as species even if known to
intergrade.&#8212;(<a id="bq1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#merriam-1897" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1897</time> pages 753&#8211;758</a>)</blockquote>
  <p id="p11">If the absence of intergrades in the hands of the student is the rule
rather than the exception when dealing with <em>mainland forms of
presumably continuous distribution</em>, what shall we say of closely related
<em>insular forms</em> where the existence of intergrades <em>is an obvious physical
impossibility?</em> And yet we all know that it is common practice&#8212;a
practice in which I fully concur&#8212;to treat such forms as subspecies.
Does not this demonstrate the absurdity of the intergradation rule?
On the other hand, by adopting the criterion of degree of divergence,
the imagination is not overtaxed, erroneous reference of subspecies to
species from which they were not derived are rendered harmless, and
the conclusions arrived at&#8212;usually the same as by the intergrade
rule&#8212;may be stated without qualms of conscience.</p>
  <p id="p12">To certain devotees of this rule, the discovery of intermediate forms
seems to produce a psychologic shock, upsetting the judgment to
such a degree that forms obviously entitled to recognition as full species
are immediately degraded to the rank of subspecies.</p>
  <p id="p13">The same is true of genera, for on the discovery of intermediate
species, certain students feel impelled to bring together, under a single
generic name, the members of two completely differentiated and easily
recognizable genera.</p>
  <p id="p14">And it may be added parenthetically that the same distorted point
of view crops out here and there in the remote field of anthropology,
some authors of distinction bringing together in a single linguistic
family two or more strongly marked and perfectly distinct families
because of the discovery (real or imagined) of an exceedingly remote
ancestral relationship!</p>
  <p id="p15">In these days of the universal acceptance of evolution, is it not
hard to reconcile such reductions of groups with the facts that must
be apparent to every one, for if species and genera and linguistic
families are to be set aside because of the discovery of intermediate forms,
does it not follow that sooner or later our classification is doomed to
destruction, chaos taking the place of system?</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>