<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>The Mammals of Southeastern Washington</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="sewah1">
  <span id="page10" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="10"/>
  <h1 id="sewah1">The Mammals of Southeastern Washington</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Lee Raymond Dice</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 10&#8211;22 + plates 1&#8211;2; <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373715" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373715</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#annotated">Annotated List of Species</a><ol type="i">
        <li><a href="#ann01">Scheffer Mole (<span class="taxon">Scapanus orarius schefferi</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann02">Dobson Shrew (<span class="taxon">Sorex vagrans dobsoni</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann03">Navigator Shrew (<span class="taxon">Neosorex navigator navigator</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann04">Long-legged Bat (<span class="taxon">Myotis longicrus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann05">Bat (<span class="taxon">Myotis yumanensis <abbr>subsp.</abbr></span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann06">Little California Bat (<span class="taxon">Myotis californicus californicus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann07">Silver-haired Bat (<span class="taxon">Lasionycteris noctivagans</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann08">Hoary Bat (<span class="taxon">Nycteris cinerea</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann09">Black or Cinnamon Bear (<span class="taxon">Ursus americanus altifrontalis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann10">Mountain Coyote (<span class="taxon">Canis latrans lestes</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann11">Red Fox (<span class="taxon">Vulpes <abbr>sp.</abbr></span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann12">Pacific Raccoon (<span class="taxon">Procyon psora pacifica</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann13">Marten (<span class="taxon">Martes <abbr>sp.</abbr></span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann14">Weasel (<span class="taxon">Mustela cicognanii lepta</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann15">Mountain Weasel (<span class="taxon">Mustela arizonensis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann16">Pacific Mink <span class="taxon">Mustela vison energumenos</span></a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann17">Great Basin Skunk (<span class="taxon">Mephitis occidentalis major</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann18">California Badger (<span class="taxon">Taxidea taxus neglecta</span></a>)</li>
        <li><a href="#ann19">Rocky Mountain Puma (<span class="taxon">Felis oregonensis hippolestes</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann20">Lynx (<span class="taxon">Lynx ruffus <abbr>subsp.</abbr></span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann21">Gray Grasshopper Mouse (<span class="taxon">Onychomys leucogaster fuscogriseus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann22">Dusky Harvest Mouse (<span class="taxon">Reithrodontomys megalotis nigrescens</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann23">Gambel White-footed Mouse (<span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus gambelii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann24">Sagebrush White-footed Mouse (<span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus artemisiæ</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann25">Western Bushy-tailed Wood Rat <span class="taxon">Neotoma cinerea occidentalis</span></a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann26">Dusky Red-backed Mouse (<span class="taxon">Evotomys gapperi saturatus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann27">Gray Meadow Mouse (<span class="taxon">Microtus nanus canescens</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann28">Biting Meadow Mouse (<span class="taxon">Microtus mordax mordax</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann29">Rocky Mountain Muskrat (<span class="taxon">Ondatra zibethica osoyoosensis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann30">Norway Rat (<span class="taxon">Rattus norvegicus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann31">House Mouse (<span class="taxon">Mus musculus musculus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann32">Columbian Pocket Gopher (<span class="taxon">Thomomys columbianus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann33">Brown Pocket Gopher (<span class="taxon">Thomomys fuscus fuscus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann34">Oregon Pocket Mouse (<span class="taxon">Perognathus parvus parvus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann35">Northwest Pocket Mouse (<span class="taxon">Perognathus lordi lordi</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann36">Columbian Pocket Mouse (<span class="taxon">Perognathus lordi columbianus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann37">Columbian Kangaroo Rat (<span class="taxon">Perodipus ordii columbianus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann38">Blue Mountain Jumping Mouse (<span class="taxon">Zapus princeps oregonus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann39">Yellow-haired Porcupine (<span class="taxon">Erethizon epixanthum epixanthum</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann40">Pallid Yellow-bellied Marmot (<span class="taxon">Marmota flaviventris avara</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann41">Columbian Ground Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Citellus columbianus columbianus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann42">Townsend Ground Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Citellus townsendii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann43">Klamath Chipmunk (<span class="taxon">Eutamias amœnus amœnus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann44">Golden-mantled Ground Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Callospermophilus chrysodeirus chrysodeirus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann45">Richardson Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonicus richardsonii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann46">Beaver (<span class="taxon">Castor canadensis canadensis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann47">Western White-tailed Jack Rabbit (<span class="taxon">Lepus townsendii townsendii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann48">Rocky Mountain Snowshoe Rabbit (<span class="taxon">Lepus bairdii bairdii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann49">Washington Jack Rabbit (<span class="taxon">Lepus californicus wallawalla</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann50">Washington Cottontail (<span class="taxon">Sylvilagus nuttallii nuttallii</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann51">Wapiti (<span class="taxon">Cervus canadensis canadensis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann52">Rocky Mountain Mule Deer (<span class="taxon">Odocoileus hemionus hemionus</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann53">Shiras Moose (<span class="taxon">Alces americanus shirasi</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann54">Bighorn (<span class="taxon">Ovis canadensis canadensis</span>)</a></li>
        <li><a href="#ann55">Missoula Goat (<span class="taxon">Oreamnos americanus missoulæ</span>)</a></li>
      </ol></li>
      <li><a href="se_wa-litcited.xhtml">Literature Cited</a></li>
      <li>Plate 1<ol>
        <li><a href="plate1.xhtml#fig1">Figure 1: Cottonwood-Willow Habitat Along the Touchet River</a></li>
        <li><a href="plate1.xhtml#fig2">Figure 2: Yellow Pine Covered Hillsides on the South Fork of the Touchet River</a></li>
      </ol></li>
      <li>Plate 2<ol>
        <li><a href="plate2.xhtml#fig1">Figure 1: Rabbit Brush Habitat in the Sagebrush Area</a></li>
        <li><a href="plate2.xhtml#fig2">Figure 2: The Canyon of Snake River</a></li>
      </ol></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p id="abstract.p1">The distribution and habits of the mammals of southeastern Washinton
are known only from scattered references in papers dealing with
other subjects. As a beginning in the organization of the knowledge
on the mammals of the region, the following paper attempts to state,
as completely as available data permit, the distribution of the various
species of mammals occurring in Walla Walla and Columbia Counties.
Original notes on the habits and abundance of the various species in
this area are given. In addition any original notes at hand on the
distribution or habits of the mammals of other parts of southeastern
Washington are included. However, no attempt is made to give a
complete statement of mammal distribution in other than the two counties
named.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p2">Descriptions of the climatic and topographic conditions in
southeastern Washington have been given by Russell
(<a id="abstract.p2.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#russell-1897" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1897</time></a>)
and Calkins
(<a id="abstract.p2.bib2" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#calkins-1905" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1905</time></a>).
Weaver
(<a id="abstract.p2.bib3" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#weaver-1917" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1917</time></a>) has described the plant habitats of Whitman
County, and the author
(<a id="abstract.p2.bib4" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#dice-1915" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1915</time></a>) has given descriptions of the vertebrate
habitats in Walla Walla and Columbia Counties.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p3">The mammals in the vicinity of Prescott, Walla Walla County,
have been studied by the author at intervals between <time>1905</time> and <time>1917</time>.
In that time several successive years were spent in the region and
frequent visits, often of several months’ duration, were made, during
which observations on mammals were taken whenever possible. Most
of two years were spent at Pullman, Whitman County, and a number
of observations were made in that region. Camping trips have been
made at various times to Wallula, Lyon’s Ferry, Wawawai, and the
Blue Mountains. A considerable number of specimens have been
secured, so that for the smaller species the identifications are well
established. The specific identifications of the larger forms are based
largely on their geographic distribution.</p>
    <p id="abstract.p4">The taxonomic determinations of a number of specimens were
kindly made by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> J. Grinnell, of the California Museum of
Vertebrate Zoology, and others by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilfred H. Osgood, of the Field
Museum of Natural History, and by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Vernon Bailey, of the United
States Bureau of Biological Survey. A few notes by Mr. Floyd
<span id="page11" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="11"/>
Kendall, Ranger in the Wenaha National Forest, on the larger mammals
of the Blue Mountains have been included. The illustrations are from
original photographs by the author.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="annotated" aria-labelledby="annotatedh2">
    <h2 id="annotatedh2">Annotated List of Species</h2>
    <ol class="annotated">
      <li id="ann01" aria-labelledby="ann01.label">
        <p id="ann01.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Scapanus orarius schefferi</span>.</strong> <span id="ann01.label">Scheffer Mole</span>.&#8212;Occurs at Walla Walla (Jackson, 
<a id="ann01.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#jackson-1915" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1915, 63&#8211;64</a>).</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann02" aria-labelledby="ann02.label">
        <p id="ann02.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Sorex vagrans dobsoni</span>.</strong> <span id="ann02.label">Dobson Shrew</span>.&#8212;One was trapped
<time datetime="1914-06-15">June 15, 1914</time>, in
willows along the Walla Walla River three miles east of Wallula. In the Touchet
Valley near Prescott numbers have been trapped in brushy places and in meadows.
One was seen <time datetime="1914-06-03">June 3, 1914</time>, inside a building in Prescott. In the Blue
Mountains one was trapped <time datetime="1914-07-26">July 26, 1914</time>, under a log in heavy lowland fir forest
near Hompeg Falls. Between <time datetime="1909-03-17">March 17</time> and <time datetime="1909-05-27">May 27, 1909</time>,
several were trapped
at Pullman in <span id="ann02.p1.tax1" class="taxon">Microtus</span> runways on top of the prairie hills and in swampy
ground near Silver Lake, and one was taken in open brushy timber beside the
South Palouse River.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann03" aria-labelledby="ann03.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Neosorex navigator navigator</span>.</strong> <span id="ann03.label">Navigator Shrew</span>.&#8212;One was trapped
<time datetime="1914-07-23">July 23, 1914</time> beside the Touchet River near Hompeg Falls. Another was taken
<time datetime="1914-08-08">August 8</time> in a small swamp beside Butte Creek.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann04" aria-labelledby="ann04.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Myotis longicrus</span>.</strong> <span id="ann04.label">Long-legged Bat</span>.&#8212;Small bats were numerous in flight
during the evenings of early <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>, in the canyon of Butte Creek. One,
which was shot, proves to be of this species. Larger bats, probably of a different
species, were also seen.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann05" aria-labelledby="ann05.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Myotis yumanensis <abbr>subsp.</abbr></span></strong> <span id="ann05.label">Bat</span>.&#8212;Two specimens were taken
in a building in
the Touchet Valley two miles east of Prescott on <time datetime="1915-08-20">August 20, 1915</time>.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann06" aria-labelledby="ann06.label">
        <p id="ann06.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Myotis californicus californicus</span>.</strong> <span id="ann06.label">Little California Bat</span>.&#8212;One
specimen is
reported from Blue Creek in the Blue Mountains by Miller
(<a id="ann06.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#miller-1897" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">l897, page 7l</a>). On
<time datetime="1913-05-08">May 8, 1913</time>, one was found under the window-sill of a house in the Touchet
Valley two miles east of Prescott. This specimen is seemingly somewhat large for
the subspecies. Bats are quite often seen flying in the evenings in openings in
the trees in the Touchet Valley near Prescott. In late <time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>, bats of
several sizes were numerous flying over Snake River in the evenings at Lyon’s
Ferry, but none were secured.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann07" aria-labelledby="ann07.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Lasionycteris noctivagans</span>.</strong> <span id="ann07.label">Silver-haired Bat</span>.&#8212;A
specimen taken at Walla Walla is in the collection of Whitman College.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann08" aria-labelledby="ann08.label">
        <p id="ann08.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Nycteris cinerea</span>.</strong> <span id="ann08.label">Hoary Bat</span>.&#8212;Miller
(<a id="ann08.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#miller-1897" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1897</time>,
page 114</a>) reports one specimen
from Walla Walla. On the morning of <time datetime="1915-09-14">September 14, 1915</time>, another was found
on the ground in a cornfield in the Touchet Valley two miles east of Prescott.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann09" aria-labelledby="ann09.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Ursus americanus altifrontalis</span>.</strong> <span id="ann09.label">Black or Cinnamon Bear</span>.&#8212;Reported
to occur rather commonly throughout the Blue Mountains. Tracks were seen in early
<time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>, in Douglas spruce forest on the ridge near Twin Buttes Ranger
Station, and in one place a freshly turned over log in western larch forest gave
evidence of a bear’s presence.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann10" aria-labelledby="ann10.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Canis latrans lestes</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann10.label">Mountain Coyote</span>.&#8212;<time datetime="1914-06-09">June 9, 1914</time>, fresh signs were seen
in the bunchgrass hills southeast of Wallula. <time datetime="1914-06-13">June 13</time>, one took a jack rabbit from
a trap set in sagebrush east of Wallula. He ate the fore parts and buried the
<span id="page12" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="12"/>
remainder, returning the next day to the cache. A number of coyotes are trapped
in the winter in the region and they are reported very abundant. In the bunchgrass
hills of Walla Walla and Columbia Counties they are common, and may
sometimes be seen in the open parts of the Touchet Valley, though they do not
often go into the timber. They are reported to occur in the Blue Mountains.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann11" aria-labelledby="ann11.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Vulpes <abbr>sp.</abbr></span></strong> <span id="ann11.label">Red Fox</span>.&#8212;Reported
to occur rather commonly on the ridges of
the Blue Mountains. In <time datetime="1914-07">July</time> and <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>,
a number of tracks were seen
along the trails on the ridges in burnt-over areas and in low brush.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann12" aria-labelledby="ann12.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Procyon psora pacifica</span>.</strong> <span id="ann12.label">Pacific Raccoon</span>.&#8212;Reported
to occur along the Walla
Walla River near Wallula. A few occur along the Touchet River in the
neighborhood of Prescott. They are occasionally noted in the timber along the
stream and their tracks are sometimes seen along the river bars. In late
<time datetime="1914-07">June, 1914</time>,
raccoons were reported to be causing considerable damage to poultry at
Lyon’s Ferry, and a number of fresh tracks were seen in the soft mud along the
margin of Snake River.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann13" aria-labelledby="ann13.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Martes <abbr>sp.</abbr></span></strong> <span id="ann13.label">Marten</span>.&#8212;<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd Kendall reports
that martens occur in the canyons of the Blue Mountains.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann14" aria-labelledby="ann14.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Mustela cicognanii lepta</span>.</strong> <span id="ann14.label">Weasel</span>.&#8212;A young specimen was taken
<time datetime="1914-08-07">August 7, 1914</time>, in heavy brush along Butte Creek.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann15" aria-labelledby="ann15.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Mustela arizonensis</span>.</strong> <span id="ann15.label">Mountain Weasel</span>.&#8212;The skull of a female from
Prescott is smaller and relatively shorter and broader than skulls from the Sierras
of California, but otherwise the specimen is typical. Mountain weasels occur
quite frequently in the neighborhood of Prescott. They range over the
bunchgrass hills, but are much more abundant near brush and timber in the Touchet
Valley. They have been taken in traps set at the openings to the tunnels of
the Columbian ground squirrels and in the burrows of pocket gophers.
Occasionally they cause damage in poultry yards. A female taken <time datetime="1913-06-05">June 5, 1913</time>, at
Prescott contained no embryos.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann16" aria-labelledby="ann16.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Mustela vison energumenos</span>.</strong> <span id="ann16.label">Pacific Mink</span>.&#8212;A
few occur along the Touchet
River near Prescott. They wander out into the timbered parts of the valley
and occasionally visit poultry yards. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd Kendall reports that they
occur along the streams in the Blue Mountains.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann17" aria-labelledby="ann17.label">
        <p id="ann17.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Mephitis occidentalis major</span>.</strong> <span id="ann17.label">Great Basin Skunk</span>.&#8212;Howell
(<a id="ann17.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#howell-1901" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1901</time>,
page 36</a>)
notes a specimen from Touchet. They are reported to be quite numerous in
the timber along the Walla Walla River east of Wallula. A few live in the
brush and timber along the Touchet River near Prescott; and they have been
trapped in the prairie hills over a mile from the river. At Lyon’s Ferry a
number occur along to shores of Snake River.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann18" aria-labelledby="ann18.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Taxidea taxus neglecta</span>.</strong> <span id="ann18.label">California Badger</span>.&#8212;Badger
mounds were numerous in <time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
in the sagebrush near Wallula, but they were still more abundant
in the bunchgrass hills to the southward. On Eureka Flat they were numerous
in both sagebrush and in bunchgrass. Numbers occur throughout the bunchgrass
region of Walla Walla and Columbia Counties. In the Blue Mountains a
few occur on the ridges in open places and among the low bushes. On
<time datetime="1914-06-10T07:00">June 10, 1914, about 7 <abbr>a.m.</abbr></time>,
a group of four badgers were seen hunting in sagebrush three
miles east of Wallula. They all seemed to be about the same size, and this was
probably a family party returning from a hunt. They kept close together and
moved at a slow trot, exploring the ground carefully, with nervous movements.
<span id="page13" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="13"/>
Finally they all went into a group of badger holes near a small ravine, two
individuals going into the same hole. Several remained for some time at the mouths
of the burrows to watch me, as they seemed to be very curious, but soon all
retired and were not again seen. They seemed to be able to travel backward
equally well as forward, and when only several feet from a burrow they nearly
always backed toward and down into it. Every one seemed to go into the burrow
backward.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann19" aria-labelledby="ann18.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Felis oregonensis hippolestes</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann19.label">Rocky Mountain Puma</span>.&#8212;<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd Kendall reports that pumas are rare in the
Blue Mountains.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann20" aria-labelledby="ann20.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Lynx ruffus <abbr>subsp.</abbr></span></strong> <span id="ann20.label">Lynx</span>.&#8212;A few
are reported to occur along the Walla Walla River
east of Wallula. Tracks in snow were seen <time datetime="1908-12-25">December 25, 1908</time>, in
the timber along the Touchet River two miles east of Prescott. In late
<time datetime="1914-07">July, 1914</time>,
a number of tracks were seen in alpine fir forest on the ridge at the head
of the North Fork of the Touchet River, and a few in burnt-over and brushy
places on the ridges near Twin Buttes Ranger Station.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann21" aria-labelledby="ann21.label">
        <p id="ann21.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Onychomys leucogaster fuscogriseus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann21.label">Gray Grasshopper Mouse</span>.&#8212;Hollister
(<a id="ann21.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#hollister-1914" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1914</time>,
page 444</a>)
records two specimens from Touchet. On <time datetime="1914-06-12">June 12, 1914</time>, one was
trapped in sagebrush near the top of a small wind-eroded bluff at the edge of the
valley of the Walla Walla River three miles east of Wallula. Extensive trapping
in the same locality failed to secure any other specimens.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann22" aria-labelledby="ann22.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Reithrodontomys megalotis nigrescens</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann22.label">Dusky Harvest Mouse</span>.&#8212;In early
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
numbers were trapped in the willows along the Walla Walla River
three miles east of Wallula. One was taken on <time datetime="1914-06-16">June 16</time> at the head of a ravine
in the bunchgrass hills south of the same locality. Along the Touchet River
east of Prescott they are abundant in brushy places and in meadows. One was
found in a stubble field a half-mile from the river on <time datetime="1908-12-24">December 24, 1908</time>.
Half-grown young were taken at Prescott in <time>1913</time> as early as
<time datetime="1913-04-10">April 10</time>, and individuals
still immature were taken in the latter part of <time datetime="1914-07">July, 1914</time>.
Captives kept in
large boxes did not eat raw potatoes, but were fond of dry oatmeal and wheat.
Several half-grown young partly ate one of their number which died. In the
summer of <time>1915</time> signs of mice were noted in a deserted bird’s nest about five feet
above ground in an arbor vitae shrub growing in a garden near Prescott. A
trap was set and an adult male harvest mouse secured on <time datetime="1915-07-09">July 9</time>. The bird’s
nest apparently was used as a resting place by the mouse.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann23" aria-labelledby="ann23.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus gambelii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann23.label">Gambel White-footed Mouse</span>.&#8212;In the early part of
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
eleven white-footed mice were trapped in the willows
along the Walla Walla River three miles east of Wallula. Several were taken
on <time datetime="1914-06-14">June 14</time> in sagebrush not over 200 yards from an irrigating ditch near the
same place, but the species does not form a part of the typical sagebrush
association. One was taken <time datetime="1914-06-16">June 16</time>
from a line of 10 traps set among the rocks on a
hillside in the range of hills to the south. In the neighborhood of Prescott the
species is common in the timber along the Touchet River. They are sometimes
found in houses and barns. A few live in the bunchgrass covered hills and they
have been taken over a mile and a half from the nearest water. At Lyon’s Ferry
two were taken on <time datetime="1914-06-25">June 25, 1914</time>,
in traps set about driftwood and rocks along
the shores of Snake River, and a number were taken at the bases of the basaltic
cliffs and on rocky slopes. In the Blue Mountains in the summer of <time>1914</time>
white-footed mice were taken in every land habitat where trapping was done. At
<span id="page14" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="14"/>
Hompeg Falls they were taken in lowland fir forest, in western larch forest, in
yellow pine forest, and on rocky slopes. They were less common in heavy forest
than in the more open brushy places and were very abundant on the rocky slopes,
especially near low shrubs. On the high ridges between the Touchet and Wenaha
Rivers white-footed mice were taken in alpine fir forest, in western larch forest,
in Douglas spruce forest, and in buckbrush. In the canyon of Butte Creek
several were trapped in the brush and timber along the stream.</p>
        <p>A female white-footed mouse heavy with young was taken
<time datetime="1908-03-27">March 27, 1908</time>,
in the bunchgrass hills near Prescott. A fully grown subadult male was taken
<time datetime="1914-05-24">May 24, 1914</time>,
in a farm building in the Touchet Valley east of Prescott. One
old female taken on
<time datetime="1914-07-02">July 2, 1914</time>,
in the brush along the Touchet River near the
same place contained four large embryos; another contained a mass of unformed
embryos; while a third contained no embryos. Of two young females taken at
the same time and place one contained four and the other five medium-sized
embryos. On
<time datetime="1915-07-08">July 8, 1915</time>,
a nest containing the mother and five half-grown
young was found in a building at this locality. The nest was constructed of
small bits of cardboard, paper, sacks, cloth, and a few chicken feathers. The
bottom of the nest contained much excreta. On
<time datetime="1909-09-13">September 13, 1909</time>,
a female
taken in a stubble field in the Touchet Valley near Prescott contained two large
embryos. Evidently these mice breed at least twice in each season in this
region, and the females may breed in the same season in which they are born. Of
fourteen females examined in the Blue Mountains between
<time datetime="1914-07-22">July 22</time> and <time datetime="1914-07-26">26</time>, <time>1914</time>,
none contained embryos.</p>
        <p>A captive subadult male studied at Prescott during the latter part of
<time datetime="1914-05">May, 1914</time>,
elaborated a nest from cotton placed in the box. He readily ate rolled oats
and nibbled at a raw potato. In eating small objects the body was supported
on the hind legs and the fore feet used to handle the food and present it to the
mouth.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann24" aria-labelledby="ann24.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus artemisiæ</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann24.label">Sagebrush White-footed Mouse</span>.&#8212;Common
at Pullman on the prairie hills, about rocks, in cultivated fields and
orchards, in meadows, and in the brush and timber along streams.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann25" aria-labelledby="ann25.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Neotoma cinerea occidentalis</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann25.label">Western Bushy-tailed Wood Rat</span>.&#8212;Reported to be common about houses along the Walla Walla River
east of Wallula; a young one taken in a cellar was seen on
<time datetime="1914-06-10">June 10, 1914</time>.
A nest was found
<time datetime="1914-06-15">June 15</time> under
a large rock in a ravine at the base of the hills southeast of Wallula. One was
trapped in <time>1893</time> in a cellar in the prairie hills two miles southwest of Prescott;
another was taken in <time>1910</time> in the cellar of a house beside the Touchet River two
miles east of Prescott; these animals lived in burrows dug in the soft dirt walls
of the cellars. In the Blue Mountains wood rats are reported to be numerous
about cabins.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann26" aria-labelledby="ann26.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Evotomys gapperi saturatus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann26.label">Dusky Red-backed Mouse</span>.&#8212;Two
were trapped
in the summer of <time>1914</time> in lowland fir forest in the canyon near Hompeg Falls; on
the ridges between the Touchet and Wenaha Rivers one was taken in thick
buckbrush, one in western larch forest, and two in alpine fir forest in a small cove
near the top of the ridge; along Butte Creek one was taken in a swampy place
and one in the brush and timber along the stream.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann27" aria-labelledby="ann27.label">
        <p id="ann27.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Microtus nanus canescens</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann27.label">Gray Meadow Mouse</span>.&#8212;Numerous
in the meadows
and in brushy places along the Touchet River near Prescott. They do not seem
<span id="page15" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="15"/>
to wander far from water. Bailey
(<a id="ann27.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#bailey-1900" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>l900</time>,
page 3l</a>)
reports one specimen from Fort
Walla Walla. At Pullman their runways are common in the grassland of the
tops and slopes of the hills.
<time datetime="1913-04-01">April 1, 1913</time>,
a female with eight very small
embryos was taken in brush beside the Touchet River near Prescott.
<time datetime="1913-04-06">April 6</time>
another female caught in an alfalfa meadow contained six well-developed embryos
each about 22 <abbr>mm.</abbr> in length. Half-grown young were common as early as
<time datetime="1913-04-01">April 1</time> in that year.</p>
        <p id="ann27.p2"><time datetime="1913-04-06">April 6, 1913</time>,
a set of workings of this species in an alfalfa meadow near Prescott
was dug out. Fresh surface runways extended in several directions 1 to 3
meters from a group of three holes which were not over 50 <abbr>cm.</abbr> from each other.
The three holes were the openings to three tunnels which connected together
near the underground opening to a fresh nest. The nest was composed of dried
grasses and its top was several centimeters below the surface of the ground. The
passages were fairly intricate, but not long, and in a blind alley a female heavy
with young was found. The previous day a large male had been trapped near
the entrance to one of the tunnels. As this system of workings was at least 50
meters from any other group of workings the evidence is strong that it was
constructed and occupied by a single pair of mice. In a set of tunnels beside an old
fence, partly dug out on
<time datetime="1913-04-13">April 13</time>,
one tunnel ran underground for more than four
meters and had several branches. A fresh underground nest filthy with excreta
connected with the tunnel. A young individual was captured in the tunnel.</p>
        <p id="ann27.p3">Captives are very fond of raw potatoes and also eat oatmeal and to a slight
extent grains of wheat.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann28" aria-labelledby="ann28.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Microtus mordax mordax</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann28.label">Biting Meadow Mouse</span>.&#8212;Very
abundant in the first week of
<time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>,
in brush and timber and especially in swampy places
along Butte Creek. On
<time datetime="1914-07-28">July 28</time>
one was trapped in alpine fir forest on the top of
a ridge at the head of the North Fork of the Touchet River. On
<time datetime="1914-08-09">August 9</time> two
half-grown young were trapped in brush beside a spring on the ridge at Twin
Buttes Ranger Station. A female taken on Butte Creek
<time datetime="1914-08-05">August 5</time> contained
two large embryos nearly ready for birth. Half-grown young were numerous
at the same place on that date. Three were trapped in late
<time datetime="1909-05">May, 1909</time>, in brush
along the South Palouse River at Pullman.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann29" aria-labelledby="ann29.label">
        <p id="ann29.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Ondatra zibethica osoyoosensis</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann29.label">Rocky Mountain Muskrat</span>.&#8212;Hollister
(<a id="ann29.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#hollister-1911" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1911</time>,
page 36</a>)
records specimens from Touchet and from Walla Walla. On
<time datetime="1914-06-15">June 15, 1914</time>,
one was seen swimming in the Walla Walla River three miles east of
Wallula. A considerable number occur along the Touchet River near Prescott. At
Pullman a few occur along the South Palouse River and in Silver Lake.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann30" aria-labelledby="ann30.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Rattus norvegicus</span>.</strong> <span id="ann30.label">Norway Rat</span>.&#8212;House
rats have entered southeastern
Washington and are rapidly increasing in numbers. They are common in Walla
Walla and a few occur in Prescott, and they are spreading along the valleys.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann31" aria-labelledby="ann31.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Mus musculus musculus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann31.label">House Mouse</span>.&#8212;On
<time datetime="1914-06-13">June 13</time> and <time datetime="1914-06-14">14</time>, <time>1914</time>,
ten were
trapped in the willows along the Walla Walla River three miles east of Wallula.
In the neighborhood of Prescott they are abundant about the houses in town and
in the valley, and even about farm buildings far out in the bunchgrass hills. In
the Touchet Valley they are often found about grain stacks and in the timber and
brush along the river. One was taken
<time datetime="1909-05-29">May 29, 1909</time>,
in brush by the South Palouse River at Pullman.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann32" aria-labelledby="ann32.label"><span id="page16" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="16"/>
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Thomomys columbianus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann32.label">Columbian Pocket Gopher</span>.&#8212;Two
specimens were taken in
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
in the meadows at the edges of the willows along the Walla Walla River
east of Wallula, and mounds were numerous at this place. A few
mounds were also observed in sagebrush on the lower slopes of the hills to the
south. Pocket gophers occur sparingly in the prairie hills near Prescott, but they
are much more abundant in the meadows and orchards along the Touchet River.
They occur in open timber, but only very rarely under heavy shade. In an
alfalfa meadow of about ten acres 75 gophers were trapped in the spring of
<time>1913</time>.</p>
        <p>Gophers are active more or less all winter near Prescott, but there is a great
increase of activity in the spring, as is shown by the number of fresh mounds
thrown up at that time. In <time>1913</time> the increase of activity was very apparent in
the early part of <time datetime="1913-03">March</time>.
Seemingly, the males become active in spring several
weeks before the females; during <time datetime="1913-03">March</time> and the early part of
<time datetime="1913-04">April, 1913</time>, nearly
all those taken were males. Gophers seem to breed early in the vicinity of
Prescott. In <time>1913</time> small animals from one-half to three-fourths grown were
common in the latter part of
<time datetime="1913-03">March</time> and in <time datetime="1913-04">April</time>.
One female taken <time datetime="1913-04-05">April 5, 1913</time>,
contained a mass of unformed embryos.
<time datetime="1913-04-29">April 29</time> a female was taken in the
same burrow from which a male had been taken a few days previously. On
<time datetime="1913-04-29">April 29</time>
in another burrow a fresh nest was found. This nest was made of grass
and alfalfa leaves, some of which were still green. The nest, which had only one
entrance, was about 8 inches below the surface of the ground and was about 2
feet from the nearest mound.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann33" aria-labelledby="ann33.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Thomomys fuscus fuscus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann33.label">Brown Pocket Gopher</span>.&#8212;Numerous
all over the
Blue Mountains. Near Hompeg Falls they were abundant from the bottoms of
the canyons to the tops of the ridges, occurring even in very rocky ground. They
were abundant on rocky slopes and in yellow pine forest. A few occurred also in
lowland fir forest in the bottom of the canyon under quite heavy shade. In
dry places on the higher ridges of the mountains they were common in open
ground, in brush, in alpine fir forest, and in western larch forest. At Pullman
they are common in the valleys and on the prairie hills.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann34" aria-labelledby="ann34.label">
        <p id="ann34.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Perognathus parvus parvus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann34.label">Oregon Pocket Mouse</span>.&#8212;The
skulls of pocket
mice taken at Wallula have smaller bullæ than those of
<span id="ann34.p1.tax1" class="taxon">Perognathus <abbr>l.</abbr> lordi</span>
from Okanagan, British Columbia, or from Prescott, Washington, and cannot
then be referred to
<span  id="ann34.p1.tax2" class="taxon"><abbr>P. l.</abbr> columbianus</span>, which is stated by Osgood
(<a id="ann34.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#osgood-1900" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1900</time>,
page 40</a>)
to have larger bullæ and mastoids than <span id="ann34.p1.tax3" class="taxon">lordi</span>. These specimens agree with the
description of <span class="taxon">parvus</span> and are referred to that form.
The pelage is lighter in color than that of <span id="ann34.p1.tax4" class="taxon">lordi</span>.</p>
        <p id="ann34.p2">A considerable number of pocket mice were taken in sagebrush near the Walla
Walla River three miles east of Wallula during
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>. They occurred both
in areas of drifting sand and in areas of packed sand. One was trapped in
bunchgrass on top of the hills to the south. All seem to be of the same species.
These mice are sometimes active during the day as is shown by tracks on wind-blown
sand. The cheek pouches often contain seeds of grasses and of other
plants. A female taken
<time datetime="1914-06-10">June 10</time> contained four rather large embryos.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann35" aria-labelledby="ann35.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Perognathus lordi lordi</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann35.label">Northwest Pocket Mouse</span>.&#8212;Common
in the bunchgrass
areas and grain fields of the region about Prescott. Although they occur
in the open parts of the Touchet Valley none have been taken near timber or
brush. A female taken near Prescott
<time datetime="1914-07-07">July 7, 1914</time>, contained eight small
<span id="page17" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="17"/>
embryos, each about 3 <abbr>mm.</abbr> in length. As half-grown young were common at this
time it is probable that more than one litter is produced a year. As shown by
tracks in the dust the tail is sometimes held completely clear of the ground
when traveling; it may touch the ground at each jump; or it may be allowed to
drag constantly.</p>
        <p>A pocket mouse which was captured alive near Prescott
<time datetime="1910-08-03">August 3, 1910</time>, was
kept as a captive. He was fed on unthreshed heads of wheat, which he shelled
out, placing the grains in his cheek pockets. The work of filling the pockets
seemed to be mainly performed by the fore feet. When both pockets were full
he would dig a hole in the ground on the floor of his cage and bury the wheat.
He was offered bits of apple and potato, but did not eat them. After being kept
for two weeks in a dry cage and fed only on wheat he was offered water, but
refused it. Another pocket mouse captured in the same locality on
<time datetime="1910-08-25">August 25</time>
was placed in a jar without material for a nest. The next morning the
temperature had fallen to below 40&#176; <abbr title="Fahrenheit">F.</abbr>
and the mouse was found cold and stiff. He was
handled, but gave no signs of life. At
<time datetime="11:00">11 <abbr>a.m.</abbr></time>
the temperature had risen and the
mouse resumed activity. However, when the experiment was repeated the
following night the mouse did not recover.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann36" aria-labelledby="ann36.label">
        <p id="ann36.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Perognathus lordi columbianus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann36.label">Columbian Pocket Mouse</span>.&#8212;Osgood
(<a id="ann36.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#osgood-1900" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1900</time>,
page 40</a>)
records specimens of this pocket mouse from Touchet.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann37" aria-labelledby="ann37.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Perodipus ordii columbianus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann37.label">Columbian Kangaroo Rat</span>.&#8212;Found commonly
during <time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
in the sagebrush east of Wallula. They seemed equally
abundant on drifting sand and on packed sand areas. These animals are somewhat
active throughout the daytime as was shown by fresh tracks in sand where
the wind was continually covering the old marks. In traveling the tail often
touches the ground at each hop, but it may be carried entirely clear, or more
rarely may be allowed to drag.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann38" aria-labelledby="ann38.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Zapus princeps oregonus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann38.label">Blue Mountain Jumping Mouse</span>.&#8212;A number were
trapped in early <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>,
on top of the ridge near Twin Buttes Ranger Station.
Nearly all were taken in thick brush, but one was taken in western larch
forest not far from a patch of buckbrush where they were abundant.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann39" aria-labelledby="ann39.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Erethizon epixanthum epixanthum</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann39.label">Yellow-haired Porcupine</span>.&#8212;A porcupine
is reported to have been killed a few years ago along the Walla Walla River a
short distance east of Wallula. A few have also been reported from the
neighborhood of Prescott. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd Kendall reports that they occur in the Blue
Mountains.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann40" aria-labelledby="ann40.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Marmota flaviventris avara</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann40.label">Pallid Yellow-bellied Marmot</span>.&#8212;Common
among the rocky cliffs on both sides of Snake River at Wawawai.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann41" aria-labelledby="ann41.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Citellus columbianus columbianus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann41.label">Columbian Ground Squirrel</span>.&#8212;Common
on the prairie and in the cultivated fields at Pullman. The large ground squirrels
of the Touchet Valley and the Blue Mountains are also referred to this form,
although they are larger in size and have a deeper red coloration on the flanks
and tail than do specimens of the typical form from Pullman, Washington, and
Moscow, Idaho. These squirrels are common along the Touchet Valley as far
down as Lamar. At Prescott they occur in timber but are most abundant just
at the edge of timber or brush. They occur along fences and sometimes climb the
fence-posts. They are found in the open parts of the valleys and sometimes
occur a half-mile or more out in the bunchgrass hills. In the Blue Mountains
<span id="page18" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="18"/>
numbers occur in buckbrush on the ridges. At Hompeg Falls a number were
found in <time datetime="1914-07">July, 1914</time>, in lowland fir forest, especially in openings in the forest, and
on rock slides near the bottom of the canyon.</p>
        <p>Most of these squirrels go into æstivation early in the summer, but they
remain active much later than do the Townsend squirrels. At Prescott several
were seen as late as <time datetime="1914-07-11">July 11 in 1914</time>.
In the Blue Mountains they were seen as late as
<time datetime="1914-07-28">July 28</time>.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann42" aria-labelledby="ann42.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Citellus townsendii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann42.label">Townsend Ground Squirrel</span>.&#8212;Abundant in early
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
in the sagebrush east of Wallula. A number also occurred in the bunchgrass
of the hills to the south. These animals were very fat in preparation for
their approaching æstivation. On Eureka Flat they were numerous in bunchgrass
and in sagebrush areas. Throughout northern Walla Walla County they
are numerous over the bunchgrass hills. In the Touchet Valley east of Prescott
a few live in gardens and in open places in the timber along the river, but in
general they avoid brushy or timbered areas. A few were noted
<time datetime="1909-04-02">April 2, 1909</time>, at
Wawawai in the grassland at the bottom of the Snake River Canyon, on the north
side of the river.</p>
        <p>A female taken at Prescott
<time datetime="1913-03-28">March 28, 1913</time>,
contained a number of unformed
embryos. Partly grown young were trapped at that place on
<time datetime="1913-04-17">April 17</time> and
<time datetime="1913-04-19">19</time> of <time>1913</time>.
Half-grown young were common near Wallula during the first week of
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>.
These squirrels come out of hibernation very early in spring and
tracks may often be seen on the snow. They go into æstivation early in
summer, and in <time>1914</time> none were seen at Prescott after
<time datetime="1914-06-25">June 25</time>.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann43" aria-labelledby="ann43.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Eutamias amœnus amœnus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann43.label">Klamath Chipmunk</span>.&#8212;Rare in the timber
along the Touchet River in the prairie area as far down as Prescott. One was
taken
<time datetime="1913-04-20">April 20, 1913</time>,
in brush two miles east of Prescott. In the Blue Mountains
they are numerous in every sort of brushy habitat, but seem to be most
numerous in the brush near the tops of the ridges. At Hompeg Falls numbers
were seen in lowland fir, western larch, and Douglas spruce forests at the
bottom of the canyon and in yellow pine forest on the lower slopes. On Butte Creek
a few occurred in the brush and deciduous timber along the stream. On the
higher ridges they were abundant in alpine fir, western larch, and Douglas spruce
forests.</p>
        <p>One watched <time datetime="1914-07-24">July 24, 1914</time>,
near Hompeg Falls, seated himself on a small
twig in the top of a service-berry bush while he ate some of the partially dried
fruit. The fore feet were used to assist in handling the food. Another watched
<time datetime="1914-08-02">August 2</time>
on top of the ridge near Twin Buttes Ranger Station was feeding on
grass seeds. He would cut off a grass stem as high up as he could reach and
then pass the head sideways through his mouth, removing the seeds and discarding
the chaff as the head of grass passed through. In this case also the fore feet
were used to handle the material.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann44" aria-labelledby="ann44.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Callospermophilus chrysodeirus chrysodeirus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann44.label">Golden-mantled Ground Squirrel</span>.&#8212;A
number were seen about the rocky slopes and in yellow pines on the sides of the canyon at Hompeg Falls in
<time datetime="1914-07">July</time> and <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>.
A few were seen in
buckbrush, in open alpine fir forest, in western larch forest, and in open Douglas
spruce forest on the higher ridges of the mountains. They seem to prefer
partially open areas and the neighborhood of rocks.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann45" aria-labelledby="ann45.label"><span id="page19" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="19"/>
        <p id="ann45.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonicus richardsonii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann45.label">Richardson Squirrel</span>.&#8212;Common during
<time datetime="1914-07">July</time> and <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>,
in the lowland fir forest at Hompeg Falls. A few were
observed in heavy Douglas spruce forest near the tops of the mountain ridges
and one was seen in young lodgepole pine forest near the top of a ridge. In the
canyon of Butte Creek one was seen in the top of a high cottonwood tree. They
are also reported by Allen
(<a id="ann45.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#allen-1898" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1898</time>,
page 266</a>)
from Blue Creek in the Blue Mountains of Walla Walla County.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann46" aria-labelledby="ann46.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Castor canadensis canadensis</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann46.label">Beaver</span>.&#8212;A few live along the Touchet River
east of Prescott, where their homes are in the banks of the stream. Sometimes
they cause damage by gnawing fruit trees in the orchards near the river or by
cutting down small trees. However, most of their labor is spent in cutting
down willows or cottonwoods of little importance to the farmer. They are even
of some value to the agriculturist in helping to stop with sticks and mud the leaks
in the brush dams commonly placed in the river to divert water for irrigating
ditches. One group of beavers in the summer of <time>1913</time> built each night a small
dam across the entrance to an irrigating ditch, but when a rope was stretched
across the ditch at that point they did not cause further mischief.</p>
        <p>In the Blue Mountains beavers are reported to be common along many of the
streams. In the summer of <time>1914</time> small beaver dams were found to be numerous
on Butte Creek. The dams were placed across small sloughs and across the tiny
streams draining from springs. Cuttings seemed to be made on all kinds of trees.
Tooth marks were noted on willows, cottonwoods, thorns, and on one small
Douglas spruce.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann47" aria-labelledby="ann47.label">
        <p id="ann47.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Lepus townsendii townsendii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann47.label">Western White-tailed Jack Rabbit</span>.&#8212;Reported
from Touchet by Nelson
(<a id="ann47.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#nelson-1909" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1909</time>,
page 82</a>).
They are also reported by farmers to occur
rarely on the bunchgrass hills southeast of Wallula. Near Prescott and Lyon’s
Ferry a number occur in the bunchgrass hills. This species does not make
definite runways such as are made by the black-tailed jack rabbits. In the region
near Prescott they become paler in winter than in summer, but no white
individuals have been noted.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann48" aria-labelledby="ann48.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Lepus bairdii bairdii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann48.label">Rocky Mountain Snowshoe Rabbit</span>.&#8212;A few were seen in
<time datetime="1914-07">July</time> and <time datetime="1914-08">August, 1914</time>,
in lowland fir forest near Hompeg Falls. One well
grown young was shot in lowland fir forest along Butte Creek and signs were
numerous in the brush along that stream. On top of the ridges near Twin Buttes
Ranger Station signs were seen in damp Douglas spruce forest and were very
numerous in patches of buckbrush.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann49" aria-labelledby="ann49.label">
        <p id="ann49.p1"><strong><span class="taxon">Lepus californicus wallawalla</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann49.label">Washington Jack Rabbit</span>.&#8212;Abundant during
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>,
in the sagebrush of western Walla Walla County. A few were seen
in the bunchgrass hills southeast of Wallula and they were fairly common in the
bunchgrass hills north of Nine-mile. On Eureka Flat and the Lower Flat a
few were seen and runways were numerous in sagebrush and in bunchgrass.
They are rarely found in the bunchgrass areas near Prescott. The type locality
of the subspecies is Touchet (Merriam,
<a id="ann49.p1.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#merriam-1904" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1904</time>,
page 137</a>).</p>
        <p id="ann49.p2">These jack rabbits make well-defined trails. Their forms are often placed
under a sagebrush just on one side of the trail, or a form may be placed right in the
trail. Usually these forms are only a slight depression in the ground, but
sometimes under a thick sagebrush a more elaborate form requiring quite a little
digging is constructed. Washington jack rabbits seem to be most active in the
<span id="page20" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="20"/>
morning and evening, although they are active more or less throughout the day
and night. While I was camped near Wallula in
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>, they were in the habit
of coming to an irrigating ditch to drink, and in the evening fifteen or twenty
might be in sight at a time. They were especially numerous after a very hot
day. During the hottest days they were not very active and seemed to dislike to
leave their forms.</p>
        <p id="ann49.p3">When the tail of the black-tailed jack rabbit is curled up, the black marking
on the upper side of the tail and that on the lower part of the rump is concealed,
and the animal appears entirely dull gray from the rear. When the tail hangs
down the black marking is very conspicuous and might well serve as a directive
mark. When the animal is moving normally the tail hangs down, and it is not
curled up when the rabbit is shot at or when running away from a dog.
Seemingly the marking is concealed only when the animal is at rest in its form. At
other times it acts as a directive mark, and the animal is able to escape its enemies
by means of its great speed.</p>
        <p id="ann49.p4">These jack rabbits are extensively hunted near Wallula by sportsmen who
come from Walla Walla and other towns, but they still maintain their
abundance. Old males become very shy, but the young individuals and females are
less wary. The young, many of which were nearly full grown in
<time datetime="1914-06">June</time>, are excellent
eating. The night trains on the railroads near Wallula are reported to run
over and kill a great many, which, blinded by the light, refuse to leave the track.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann50" aria-labelledby="ann50.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Sylvilagus nuttallii nuttallii</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann50.label">Washinton Cottontail</span>.&#8212;Common
in the willows
along the Walla Walla River east of Wallula and numerous in the sagebrush,
especially within a short distance of streams. On
<time datetime="1914-06-16">June 16, 1914</time>, one was
seen among rocks on a hillside southeast of Wallula, and several half-grown
young were seen in the bunchgrass of the hills above. A number occur in the
timber along the Touchet River near Prescott, In late
<time datetime="1914-06">June, 1914</time>, a few were
seen about the rocks and cliffs of the canyon of the Snake River at Lyon’s Ferry,
and they are reported to be quite common among these rocks.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann51" aria-labelledby="ann51.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Cervus canadensis canadensis</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann51.label">Wapiti</span>.&#8212;<abbr>Mr.</abbr>
Floyd Kendall reports that
wapiti formerly occurred in the Blue Mountains, but that none now occur there,
except a few which have been reared in captivity and liberated.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann52" aria-labelledby="ann52.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Odocoileus hemionus hemionus</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann52.label">Rocky Mountain Mule Deer</span>.&#8212;There are
perhaps several species of deer in the Blue Mountains of Washington, but the
mule deer is the only one certainly known to be present. During the summer of
<time>1914</time> a few tracks of deer were seen in lowland fir forest near the head of the
North Fork of the Touchet River. A number of tracks were found and one deer
was seen in Douglas spruce forest on the ridges near Twin Buttes Ranger Station.
They are reported to be most abundant in the brush at the heads of coves and
on the higher slopes of the mountains. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr title="Charles">Chas.</abbr> Clague
captured a fawn,
seemingly lost, in the bunchgrass hills two miles southwest of Prescott in the
spring of <time>1890</time>, following a heavy snow. No deer normally occur in that region.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann53" aria-labelledby="ann53.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Alces americanus shirasi</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann53.label">Shiras Moose</span>.&#8212;<abbr>Mr.</abbr>
Floyd Kendall reports that moose formerly occurred in the Blue Mountains, but that none are now found there.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann54" aria-labelledby="ann54.label">
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Ovis canadensis canadensis</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann54.label">Bighorn</span>.&#8212;Bighorns are said by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd
Kendall to have formerly occurred in southeastern Washington in the Blue
Mountains, but to be now extinct in the region.</p>
      </li>
      <li id="ann55" aria-labelledby="ann55.label"><span id="page21" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="21"/>
        <p><strong><span class="taxon">Oreamnos americanus missoulæ</span>.</strong>
<span id="ann55.label">Missoula Goat</span>.&#8212;Goats
are reported by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Floyd Kendall to have occurred at one time
in the Blue Mountains of Washington, but they are now absent from the region.</p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>