<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Copyright Page</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="copyright" aria-labelledby="copyrighth1">
  <h1 id="copyrighth1">Copyright Information</h1>
  <p><dfn>This Work</dfn> refers to this digital book (the ePub) as a whole.</p>
  
  <p><dfn>The Canonical Journal Volume</dfn> refers to the Journal of Mammalogy, Volume 1, as published in five Numbers (issues) during the years <time>1919</time> and <time>1920</time> by the <a href="https://www.mammalogy.org/" title="Internet Resource">American Society of Mammalogists</a>.</p>
  
  <p>The Canonical Journal Volume copyright has expired, the content of that work is now in the Public Domain.</p>
  
  <p>The <abbr>XML</abbr> and <code>CSS</code> code wrapped around that Public Domain content to create This Work is &#169;<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press (Michael A. Peters) and is released by Pipfrosch Press under the the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license.</p>
  
  <p>The Cover page photograph is not part of the Canonical Journal Volume. The photograph is by carnivore ecologist Tyus D. Williams and is &#169;<time>2020</time> Tyus D. Williams, all rights reserved. The image is used by permission.</p>

  <p>The ‘Pipfrosch frog’ illustration used in association with the ‘Pipfrosch Press’ logo is not part of the Canonical Journal Volume. This illustration is &#169;<time>2020</time>
<a href="https://www.nicole-wilson.com/" title="Internet Resource">Nicole Wilson</a>. Permission is being sought.</p>

  <p><abbr>JPEG</abbr> images of the photographic plates that appeared in the Canonical Journal Article were photographed from the Canonical Journal Article and digitally restored, as much as possible, by Michael A. Peters. The original plates are in the Public Domain but the photographs of them in this work are &#169;<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press (Michael A. Peters) and are released by Pipfrosch Press under the the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license.</p>

  <p>The drawn illustrations that appeared in the Canonical Journal Article are in the Public Domain but the <abbr>SVG</abbr> representations of them in this work are &#169;<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press (Michael A. Peters) and are released by Pipfrosch Press under the the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license.</p>

  <p>The Glossary content is not part of the Canonical Journal Volume. Most of the glossary entries are from <a href="https://en.wiktionary.org/">Wiktionary</a> and are used under the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0 license. Other entries are &#169;<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press (Michael A. Peters) and are released by Pipfrosch Press under the the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license.</p>

  <p>All other ‘Frontmatter’ and ‘Backmatter’ content that is <em>not</em> part of the Canonical Journal Volume is &#169;<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press (Michael A. Peters) and is released by Pipfrosch Press under the the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license.</p>

  <p>All font files included within This Work are either licensed under the SIL Open Font License (<abbr>OFL</abbr>) or the Apache License 2.0. The license files corresponding with the fonts are included in the ePub (zip) archive in the same directory as the font files.</p>
  
  <section id="redistribution" aria-labelledby="redistributionh2">
    <h2 id="redistributionh2">Redistribution</h2>
    <p>Unmodified versions of This Work may be freely redistributed without compensation.</p>
    
    <p>Modified versions of This Work may be redistributed under the terms of the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license with the following exceptions:</p>
    <dl>
      <dt>‘Cover Pronghorn Photograph’</dt>
        <dd>Modified versions must either remove the photograph of a Pronghorn used on the cover, or license it seperately from Tyus D. Williams.</dd>
      <dt>‘Pipfrosch frog’ illustration by Nicole Wilson</dt>
        <dd>Modified versions must either remove that illustration, or license it separately from Nicole Wilson.</dd>
      <dt>Wiktionary Content</dt>
        <dd>Wiktionary glossary content must conform to the terms of the older Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0 license.</dd>
      <dt>Font Files</dt>
        <dd>Font files must conform to the terms of the license files associated with the font.</dd>
    </dl>
    <p>Generally speaking, the only issue with distributing <em>modified</em> versions of This Work is the ‘Pipfrosch frog’ illustration and the cover Pronghorn photograph. Those two images require separate licensing to include in a modified version of This Work.</p>
    <p>If in doubt, read the license files:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/" title="Internet Resource">Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/" title="Internet Resource">Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&amp;id=OFL" title="Internet Resource">SIL Open Font License</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0" title="Internet Resource">Apache License, Version 2.0</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
