<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>TODO</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fundingh1">
  <h1 id="fundingh1">Donations</h1>
  <p>I am a <strong>strong</strong> supporter of the Open Access concepts presented by Aaron Swartz (may he <em>never</em> be forgotten) in his <a href="https://archive.org/stream/GuerillaOpenAccessManifesto/Goamjuly2008_djvu.txt" title="Internet Resource">Guerilla Open Access Manifesto</a>, including:</p>
  <blockquote>&#8220;Only those blinded by greed would refuse to let a friend make a copy. Large corporations, of course, are blinded by greed.&#8221;</blockquote>
  <p>For some people, even charging $1.00 results in a financial access barrier that prevents access to the resource. Those people are not any less worthy than Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg. This is why this digital book is provided for free without any charge.</p>
  <p>That being said, an incredible amount of time, energy, and even some personal financial resources went into the production of this digital book.</p>
  <p>In <time>1920</time>, $3.50 would have given you a 1 year subscription to the Journal of Mammalogy. In <time>2020</time> assuming I did my maths right, that would be the equivalent of about $45.00.</p>
  <p>I only ask you for $10.00, <em>split</em> between <a href="#pipfrosch">Pipfrosch Press</a> and the <a href="#jom">American Society of Mammalogists</a>. You can donate more to either if you would like, of course, or donate less or even donate none. The choice is completely yours to make and depends upon both your financial means and your personal level of generosity.</p>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pph2">
    <h2 id="pph2">Pipfrosch Press</h2>
    <p>At this time, hopefully soon to be remedied, Pipfrosch Press is not a legal entity. Donations can be made to Michael A. Peters with the understanding that such donations are not at this time tax deductible.</p>
    <p>Donations will help Pipfrosch Press continue to produce Open Access digital publications, both the republication of previously print published academic content and the production of fresh content.</p>
    <p>To donate using the Android or iOS/iPadOS &#8220;CashApp&#8221; application:</p>
    <p>CashApp tag <a href="https://cash.app/$AliceWonderMisc" title="Internet Resource">$AliceWonderMisc</a></p>
    <p>To donate using PayPal:</p>
    <p>PayPal Payment Address <a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&amp;business=pipfroschpress@gmail.com&amp;lc=US&amp;item_name=Donation+to+Pipfrosch+Press+Open+Access+ePub+Production&amp;no_note=0&amp;cn=&amp;curency_code=USD&amp;bn=PP-DonationsBF:btn_donateCC_LG.gif:NonHosted" title="Internet Resource">pipfroschpress@gmail.com</a>. Note that PayPal allows you to make it a monthly donation, <strong>only check the box for that if that <em>really</em> is your intention</strong>.</p>
    <p>Thank you.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="jom" aria-labelledby="asmh2">
    <h2 id="asmh2">American Society of Mammalogists</h2>
    <p>To donate to the American Society of Mammalogists and help their continued production of the Journal of Mammalogy (now in production for over 100 years!) please see their donation page:</p>
    <p><a href="https://asm.wildapricot.org/Donate" title="Internet Resource">https://asm.wildapricot.org/Donate</a></p>
    <p>Please note that Journal of Mammalogy has been an Open Access journal since <time>1996</time> and is one of the first journals to embrace the Open Access movement. You can access their Open Access content at <a href="https://www.mammalsociety.org/articles" title="Internet Resource">https://www.mammalsociety.org/articles</a>. Donations help fund what they make freely available.</p>
    <p>Speaking presumably on their behalf, Thank you.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>