<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>ePub Notes</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="epubnotesh1">
  <h1 id="epubnotesh1">ePub Notes</h1>
  <p>This digital book is not an attempt to create a perfect digital facsimile of the original work. Rather, it is an attempt to create a representation of the original work that takes full advantage of the ePub technological capabilities in a manner that reduces or eliminates content access barriers for users who have them, which is quite a few of us whether we realize it or not.</p>
  <p>The purpose of the original work was to convey meaningful information to an audience that wanted to consume that information. The purpose of this digital book version likewise is to convey that meaningful information but in a manner that expands the audience of those who are able to consume the information using modern technology. To meet that goal, some typographical changes have been made.</p>
  <section id="general" aria-labelledby="generalh2">
    <h2 id="generalh2">General Changes</h2>
    <p>Journal of Mammalogy Volume 1 was initially distributed in five different Numbers (issues) published at different times during <time>1919</time> and <time>1920</time>.</p>
    <p>Volume 1 was later also distributed as a single bound book containing all five Numbers.</p>
    <p>The pagination between the separately distributed Numbers and the single bound volume are identical, but there are some difference worth noting:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>The separately distributed &#8216;Numbers&#8217; had a cover that included a Table of Contents on the cover and on the inside of that cover, before the pagination of the &#8216;Numbers&#8217; began, they had non-academic frontmatter notes about the structure of the American Society of Mammalogists and the Journal of Mammalogy. Later printings of the single bound book, such as what I possess, did not include those covers or the frontmatter that preceded the numbered pages. It <em>appears</em> that earlier printings of the single bound book did in fact contain them.</li>
      <li>The single bound book contains an index to content in all five &#8216;Numbers&#8217; as backmatter. If this index existed in the separately distributed &#8216;Numbers&#8217; then either it was issue specific in the first four &#8216;Numbers&#8217; or was only included with &#8216;Number 5&#8217;.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>This digital book was created by transcribing the single bound volume that I have, which at one point belonged to Vassar College and appears to have been rebound before I acquired it. To reproduce the plates and figures in the highest possible quality, the book was unbound so that the pages containing the plates and figures could be photographed flat at a very high resolution. I did rebind the volume after this process because I treasure it.</p>
    <p>The bound volume that I possess did not contain the individual Number covers or the information printed on the inside of the covers but I was able to obtain the pronghorn image for <abbr>SVG</abbr> tracing from the American Society of Mammalogists website and I was able to obtain the inside cover information from a <abbr>PDF</abbr> file produced by The Smithsonian Institution, which they created from scans of Volume 1 Numbers in the possession of the Remington Kellogg library of Marine Mammalogy. It is <em>possible</em> there is other content from the original Volume 1 Numbers that was not on numbered pages that is both absent from my bound volume and from the <abbr>PDF</abbr> scans provided by the Smithsonian Institution. In the event I find such content exists, it can be added in a future edition of this digital book.</p>
    <p>The content from numbered pages I do believe is complete.</p>
    <p>In this digital book, I have placed a facsimile of the individual Number covers at the beginning of where content from that particular Number begins, though the facsimile of the covers are intentionally not identical. For example, the Table of Contents has been moved to <em>follow</em> the Number cover rather than being integrated into the cover. For typographical reasons on small screen displays I also left out the notes about second-class postage that were part of the Number covers.</p>
    <p>The non-academic notes about the American Society of Mammalogists and the Journal of Mammalogy from the inside front cover of the Numbers but that do not appear in my bound book have been added for the benefit of the historical context, but they are added as backmatter at the <em>end</em> of the Number content rather than as originally presented frontmatter preceding the Number content.</p>
    <p>The index from the bound book version of Volume 1 has been preserved but reformatted with how it presents trinomial nomenclature references.</p>
    <p>The original publication is typeset for fixed layout printing. This digital book is typeset for responsive layout viewing on a digital screen of unknown dimensions while allowing the user to adjust parameters such as font size and line spacing that impact the rendering of the layout and how many virtual pages are required.</p>
    <p>For this reason, photographic plates and tabular data and <em>most</em> drawn figures are placed at the end of the journal article in which they appear. Hyperlinks allow the reader to easily jump to the photographic plate, table, or drawn figure from within the content when it is referenced.</p>
    <p>In academic journals, there are many abbreviations that are used that are well understood by scholars within the field of study but provide comprehension barriers to those who are not familiar with those abbreviations and also result in an absolutely horrible experience for users that depend upon on a screen reader to access the content.</p>
    <p>Some abbreviations do remain, but many of the abbreviations within the content I expanded to the full meaning to mitigate these access barriers.</p>
    <p>Sometimes an academic journal article will indicate a logical section using an italicized word followed by a period followed by an em-dash. In a few cases, this can cause some confusion if the logical section defined that way should have the same logical level as the logical section that precedes it. In those cases, I will split it out as a distinct section heading for the purpose of clarity.</p>
    <p>This journal volume often uses four widely spaced periods to indicate an ellipsis, using a non-breaking space between each period. That was fairly common in that temporal era and I <em>believe</em> is the method specified in the Chicago Manual of Style.</p>
    <p>I prefer to use an ellipsis glyph (&#8230;) in those cases, let the font decide how to render it. An ellipsis glyph makes it easier for machine parsers to understand it is an ellipsis.</p>
    <p>I have added a contents navigation list to the beginning of articles where it is beneficial, and also I have indicated the <abbr>DOI</abbr> that uniquely identifies the canonical version of the article at the beginning of each article.</p>
    <p>The use of small-cap font variants can be problematic in digital books so they are not used within this ePub. In <em>some</em> cases where the journal uses all upper-case characters, I have opted not to for consistent readability.</p>
    <p>Typography for print consumption and typography for digital consumption have different considerations that must be taken into account for the best possible reader experience. Thank you for understanding.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="litcitedn" aria-labelledby="litcitednh2">
    <h2 id="litcitednh2">Literature Cited Notes</h2>
    <p>Literature Cited sections and the Recent Literature sections have been altered in the manner in which they present the work.</p>
    <p>There are three &#8216;standard&#8217; styles for citations:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><abbr>MLA</abbr></li>
      <li><abbr>APA</abbr></li>
      <li><abbr>Chicago</abbr></li>
    </ol>
    <p>For the most part, the citation method I prefer is very similar to <abbr>APA</abbr> with some minor differences.</p>
    <p>Some stylistic purists may object to these minor differences. For those purists, they are free to alter their copy of the digital book, no <abbr>DRM</abbr> is used.</p>
    <p>Most articles within this volume do not actually have a Literature Cited section but instead use full inline references. I do not like full inline references, they tend to break my concentration and reduce my reading comprehension. To mitigate this often over-looked access barrier, I created a unified bibliography that has both the full complete reference and an index to what where it was cited. In place of the full inline reference I usually placed a much shorter inline reference that is a link to the unified bibliography. In a few cases I deemed it appropriate to the context of the article to leave a fuller reference inline. In the very few cases where an article did in fact have its own Literature Cited section, that has been preserved although the hyperlinks within the article still point to the unified bibliography.</p>
    <p>Journal and other abbreviations in the bibliography have been fully expanded. The reason for this becomes quite evident if you have ever had to use a screen reader with a bibliography. Whenever I could find a <abbr>DOI</abbr> or Handle link for the referenced academic work, I generally added it. The one exception is handle links that point to a Google Books scanned copy where the handle link does not appear to be maintained by the journal. Google Books is very problematic for a variety of reasons, I will not link to them unless the <abbr>DOI</abbr> or Handle link that points to a Google Books scanned copy is maintained by the journal that produced the article. When I could not find a <abbr>DOI</abbr> or Handle link, I tried to find a <abbr>URL</abbr> (preferring <abbr>BHL</abbr>) for the resource to link to.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="indexn" aria-labelledby="indexnh2">
    <h2 id="indexnh2">Index Notes</h2>
    <p>The original index had a few typographical errors that I chose to correct, such as using <span class="taxon">Myotis ussuriensis</span> where the author used <span class="taxon">Murina ussuriensis</span>. Both are Bat genera that begin with the letter M, the latter genera only appears once in this volume, easy mistake to make.</p>
    <p>However in addition to correcting the minor typographical errors, I made a major structural change worth noting.</p>
    <p>With trinomial nomenclature, the original index only listed the reference using genus and subspecies, basically listing the reference the way it would be referenced with binomial nomenclature if the subspecies was elevated to species status.</p>
    <p>I am sorry but I find that to be very confusing and counter to the purpose of an index. I went through the index and changed all references to proper full trinomial nomenclature when the author used trinomial nomenclature.</p>
    <p>In the 100 years since this volume was first published, some species have undergone a change to the accepted taxonomic nomenclature. Where I am aware of such a change, I added an entry for the currently accepted nomenclature instructing the reader on the synonym used by authors in this volume. This was done primarily for the benefit of young students who may not know to search an index for historic synonyms if they can not find what they are looking for.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>