<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Glossary of Terms</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<!-- role="doc-glossary" -->
<section epub:type="glossary" aria-labelledby="glossh1">
  <h1 id="glossh1">Glossary of Terms</h1>

  <p>Many glossary definitions defined here are sourced from <a href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Wiktionary:Main_Page" title="Internet Resource">Wiktionary.org</a>. If the definition from Wiktionary.org is added to, the date of Wiktionary.org access is appended to the end of the definition.</p>
  <dl>
<!-- A -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="aestivate"><dfn>aestivate</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Alternate spelling of <a href="#estivate" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">estivate</a></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="æstivate"><dfn>æstivate</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Alternate spelling of <a href="#estivate" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">estivate</a></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="anterior_premolar"><dfn>anterior premolar</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">FIXME&#8212;Definition term needed.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="AOU"><dfn><abbr>A. O. U.</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">Abbreviation for <em>American Ornithologists’ Union</em>&#8212;which now goes by the name American Ornithological Society.</dd>
<!-- B -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="basal"><dfn>basal</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">1. Basic, elementary; relating to, or forming, the base, or point of origin. 2. (anatomy) Associated with the base of an organism or structure. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:25:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="binomial_nomenclature"><dfn>binomial nomenclature</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The scientific system of naming each species of organism with a Latinized name in two parts; the first is the genus, and is written with an initial capital letter; the second is some specific epithet that distinguishes the species within the genus. By convention, the whole name is typeset in italics [or is underlined when italics can not be used]. The genus part is often abbreviated to its initial letter <abbr>e.g.</abbr> <span class="taxon">H. sapiens</span> for <span class="taxon">Homo sapiens</span>. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T08:29:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
<!-- C -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="calcar"><dfn>calcar</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">A spur of cartilage that runs from the inner ankle along the outer interfemoral membrane.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="cladistics">cladistics</dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">A commonly used term to refer to <a href="#phylogenetic_systematics" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">phylogenetic systematics</a>.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="crepuscular"><dfn>crepuscular</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">Active at or around dusk, dawn or twilight. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-26T00:04:00-0700">2020 April 26</time></span></dd>
<!-- D -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="distal"><dfn>distal</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">Remote from the point of attachment or origin. [Contrast with <a href="#basal" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">basal</a>]. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:36:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term"><dfn><abbr>DOI</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">An abbreviation for <em>Digital Object Identifier</em>&#8212;A persistent unique identifier for a digital object that can be used to resolve the canonical version of a digital object, such as an academic paper.</dd>
<!-- E -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="estivate"><dfn>estivate</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">To go into stasis or torpor in the summer months. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-18T05:19:00-0700">2020 April 18</time></span></dd>
<!-- F -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="fibula"><dfn>fibula</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The smaller of the two bones in the lower leg, the calf bone. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:00:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
<!-- I -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="IBIS"><dfn>IBIS</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">Abbreviation of <em>Indian Biodiversity Information System</em>&#8212;A &#8216;a series of web-based, modular and searchable biodiversity portals, designed to compile and present in a comprehensive and scientifically accurate manner the available information on Indian flora and fauna which is readily accessible, free and user-friendly.&#8217; See <a href="https://www.indianbiodiversity.org/" title="Internet Resource">https://www.indianbiodiversity.org/</a>.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="ITIS"><dfn><abbr>ITIS</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Abbreviation of <em>Integrated Taxonomic Information System</em>&#8212;A database of taxonomic names including reports on the current consensus regarding the validity of those names. The stated goal of the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> &#8220;is to create an easily accessible database with reliable information on species names and their hierarchical classification.&#8221;</dd>
<!-- J -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="junior_synonym"><dfn>junior synonym</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">When a taxonomy name is assigned to a type specimen but the type specimen is not actually distinguishable as a distinct taxon from a previously described type specimen, the more recent taxonomy name is considered to be a junior synonym of the previously described taxonomy name and in all but a few very special circumstances&#8212;such as the senior name violating a naming convention&#8212;the junior synonym is considered invalid.</dd>
<!-- M -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="metatarsus"><dfn>metatarsus</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The part of the foot between the toes and the ankle, especially its five bones. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:10:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
<!-- N -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="nom_nov"><dfn><abbr>nom. nov.</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">An abbreviation for <em>Nomen Novum</em>&#8212;A renaming of a taxon that previously had been assigned a taxonomical name but for which the former name must be invalidated.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="nomen_nudem"><dfn>nomen nudem</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">&#8216;Naked Name&#8217;&#8212;When a new taxonomic name is given but without a type specimen or an adequate description of the type, is considered invalid and referred to as <em>nomen nudem</em>.</dd>
<!-- P -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="patagium"><dfn>patagium</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The thin membrane that extends between the limbs and body of a bat or of gliding mammals. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:29:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="phylogenetic_systematics">phylogenetic systematics</dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">Phylogenetic systematics is the formal name for the field within biology that reconstructs evolutionary history and studies the patterns of relationships among organisms. See <a href="https://evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/article/phylogenetics_01" title="Internet Resource">https://evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/article/phylogenetics_01</a>.</dd>
<!-- S -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="sp_nov"><dfn><abbr>sp. nov.</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">An abbreviation for <em>Species Nova</em>&#8212;A new species that has not previously been assigned a taxonomy <a href="#binomial_nomenclature" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">binomial nomenclature</a> name.</dd>
<!-- T -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="tarsus"><dfn>tarsus</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The part of the foot between the <a href="#tibia" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">tibia</a> and <a href="#fibula" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">fibula</a> and the <a href="#metatarsus" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">metatarsus</a>. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T08:55:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="tibia"><dfn>tibia</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The inner and usually the larger of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee, the shinbone. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T08:58:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="tragus"><dfn>tragus</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The small piece of thick cartilage of the external ear that is immediately in front of the ear canal. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:39:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="type_locality"><dfn>type locality</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The geographical locality where the specimen used to describe a new species was collected.</dd>
<!-- U -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="uropatagium"><dfn>uropatagium</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">The portion of the <a href="#patagium" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">patagium</a> found between the hind limbs and connecting to the tail. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-04-16T09:32:00-0700">2020 April 16</time></span></dd>
<!-- V -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="vicissitude"><dfn>vicissitude</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef" role="definition">A change from one thing to another, in the context of biology this can include taxonomy changes over time.</dd>
  </dl>
</section>
</body>
</html>