<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Needed Articles</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="photosh1">
  <h1 id="photosh1">Needed Articles</h1>
  <p>The following articles are wanted for the Supplementary section.</p>
  <p>Order of <em>personal</em> importance to me:</p>
  <div role="navigation">
    <ol>
      <li><a href="#dentition">Mammalian Dentition</a></li>
      <li><a href="#woodrat">Colorado Wood Rat</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="dentition" aria-labelledby="dentition.label">
    <h2 id="dentition.label">Mammalian Dentition</h2>
    <p>This is <strong><em>desperately</em></strong> needed.</p>
    <p>Dentition is frequently used in mammal descriptions and is often a reliable diagnostic for distinguishing similar species or genera. Many of the articles assume the reader has both a basic understanding of mammalian dentition and the terminology used to describe mammalian dentition. Many people however do not.</p>
    <p>Describing the terminology is, in my opinion, beyond the scope of the glossary. Definitions should be in the glossary, but there should also be an article that does a better job that the glossary can refer to.</p>
    <p>This is, in my opinion, a desperate accessibility need that is needed to help non-biologists get the full value of the journal articles.</p>
    <p>The article should be written such that a &#8216;typical&#8217; high school student can comprehend it.</p>
    <p>The article should be written as a stand-alone article that can be reused as needed.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="woodrat" aria-labelledby="woodrat.label">
    <h2 id="woodrat.label">Colorado Wood Rat</h2>
    <p>Volume 1 Number 5 has an excellent article detailing observations about a wood rat in Colorado that created a home within an abandoned building. I think it would be really fascinating for a naturalist in Colorado who stumbles upon this type of observation to make a modern account of the observation with detailed digital photographs to match the account.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>