<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Needed Photos</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="photosh1">
  <h1 id="photosh1">Needed Photographs</h1>
  <p>The original journal volume contains eighteen black and white photographs.</p>
  <p>These photographs were printed on glossy plates, where they experienced some deterioration as the copy of the journal volume in my possession aged, and then they were re-photographed by me for inclusion in this digital book. They are usable but they are not optimal for high-definition digital devices and the aging of the prints has not helped.</p>
  <p>It would in my opinion be of benefit to readers if freshly created color images using a digital <abbr>SLR</abbr> that show the same concepts portrayed by the original photographs could be provided as supplemental plates. I would prefer it if phone cameras were not used, they probably would produce higher quality images than the current photographs but the images produced are visibly inferior on large displays such as what might be used in a presentation.</p>
  <p>If you are a photographer who happens to be in one of the geographical areas needed to recreate fresh versions of these images and are willing to do so, it would be greatly appreciated.</p>
  <p>The photographs would need to be released under a license compatible with the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license used for this digital book.</p>
  <p>Pipfrosch Press can be contacted at <a href="mailto:pipfroschpress@gmail.com">pipfroschpress@gmail.com</a> if you are able to help in this respect.</p>
  <p>Order of <em>personal</em> importance to me:</p>
  <div role="navigation">
    <ol>
      <li><a href="#vertebrate">Vertebrate Zoology Museum</a></li>
      <li><a href="#sewa">Southeastern Washington State</a></li>
      <li><a href="#okefinokee">Okefinokee Swamp in Georgia</a></li>
      <li><a href="#gplains">Great Plains (likely Montana or Wyoming)</a></li>
      <li><a href="#canoga">Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California</a></li>
      <li><a href="#nwia">Northwestern Indiana</a></li>
      <li><a href="#london">British Museum, London, England</a></li>
      <li><a href="#colo">Colorado</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="vertebrate" aria-labelledby="vertebrateh2">
    <h2 id="vertebrateh2">Vertebrate Zoology Museum</h2>
    <p>Two photographs of a well-preserved California Mastiff Bat (<span class="taxon">Eumops parotis californicus</span>) are needed to correspond with the photographs in Plate 5 and Plate 6. A dorsal view, and a head view.</p>
    <p>Both photographs should have a ruler to indicate size, even though such a ruler is only present in Plate 5. Both photographs <em>must</em> have the museum specimen number as part of the photograph.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="sewa" aria-labelledby="sewah2">
    <h2 id="sewah2">Southeastern Washington State</h2>
    <p>Four photographs are needed to correspond with the photographs in <a href="../1919Nov/plate1.xhtml">Plate 1</a> and <a href="../1919Nov/plate2.xhtml">Plate 2</a>.</p>
    <p>These are landscape photos showing four different types of habitat. I have not been to the area but it is my <em>suspicion</em> that suitable opportunities at or very near the same locations still exist, based upon that area being an area chosen by Gray Wolves (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus occidentalis</span>) expanding from Idaho and Oregon.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="okefinokee" aria-labelledby="okefinokeeh2">
    <h2 id="okefinokeeh2">Okefinokee Swamp in Georgia</h2>
    <p>Two photographs are needed to correspond with the photographs in Plate 3.</p>
    <p>The first is a landscape photograph from Floyd’s Island Prairie which I <em>believe</em> is only accessible by canoe. As it is a National Wildlife Refuge, I suspect that an opportunity exists to recreate a very similar photograph at the same location. Note that it was photographed in <time datetime="1912-05-22">May 1912</time>, the same time of year should probably be chosen.</p>
    <p>The second photograph shows a runway of a Round-tailed Muskrat <em>[=Florida Water-Rat]</em> (<span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span>). Assuming the species still persists in the Okefinokee Swamp, ideally the photograph would come from within the Okefinokee Swamp but it is not critical for the photograph to come from within the Okefinokee Swamp as long as the runway is from a Round-tailed Muskrat and is in the same type of habitat.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="gplains" aria-labelledby="gplainsh2">
    <h2 id="gplainsh2">Great Plains (likely Montana or Wyoming)</h2>
    <p>Two photographs of Pronghorn (<span class="taxon">Antilocapra americana</span>) horns are needed to correspond with the photographs in Plate 8, which are from the Yellowstone area.</p>
    <p>One is of a new growth horn. This would have to be scavenged from a deceased animal that died in the spring. My guess is that roadkill scavenge would be a likely source.</p>
    <p>The second is of a shed horn.</p>
    <p>Plate 8 was created by combining two different photographs. I suspect it is possible to recreate the same example using a single photograph with the horns laid out in the same configuration. I also suspect a naturalist living in an area where Pronghorn are plentiful already has suitable horns in a collection that could be photographed.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="canoga" aria-labelledby="canogah2">
    <h2 id="canogah2">Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California</h2>
    <p>A single photograph is needed to correspond with Plate 9.</p>
    <p>This is a so-called &#8220;portrait&#8221; orientation landscape photograph of a bat cave near Owensmouth (modern day Canoga Park).</p>
    <p>Fortunately I have been able to identify the location and urban sprawl has not destroyed the habitat where the photograph in Plate 8 was taken. A modern photograph of the <em>same</em> cave would be really nice to have.</p>
    <p>The location is the Cave of Munits &amp; Castle Peak in El Escorpión Park.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="nwia" aria-labelledby="nwiah2">
    <h2 id="nwiah2">Northwestern Indiana</h2>
    <p>A single photograph is needed of a Western Fox Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span>) nest to correspond with Plate 7.</p>
    <p>In Plate 7, the actual nest was altered removing a side to show the construction of the nest. A stuffed specimen was then posed with the nest.</p>
    <p>According to the article, the nests are very well constructed and persist for some time beyond the rearing season. Removal of a wild nest <em>after</em> the rearing season is thus possible with minimal impact to the local population of squirrels, though obviously local laws should be consulted before destruction of an existing nest.</p>
    <p>With respect to a stuffed specimen, I suspect a local taxidermy shop would have access to one.</p>
    <p>My preference for the re-creation of the scene in Plate 7 would be as part of an educational exhibit at a Natural History Museum rather than just for this digital book.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="london" aria-labelledby="londonh2">
    <h2 id="londonh2">British Museum, London, England</h2>
    <p>Two photographs are needed to correspond with the photographs in Plate 4. The need for these photos is in my opinion somewhat superficial but still would be nice to have.</p>
    <p>These are photographs of the type specimen for <span class="taxon">Odocoileus mexicanus</span>, which is mounted antlers in the British Museum. Assuming the British Museum still has the mounted antlers, a photograph from the right side and a photograph from the front would be very good to have. An additional photograph of the nameplate would be nice as well.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="colo" aria-labelledby="coloh2">
    <h2 id="coloh2">Colorado</h2>
    <p>Four photographs corresponding with the photographs in Plate 10 and Plate 11.</p>
    <p>Given the very specific nature of the photographs in relation to the article, I do not believe it would be possible for modern photographs to convey the same meaning.</p>
    <p>However I would <em>love</em> to have modern photographs that are similar and are accompabied by an article that matches, much like the photographs in Plate 10 and 11 match the article they accompany.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>