<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>August 1920 Inside Cover</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/svg.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="asmh1">
  <h1 id="asmh1">The American Society of Mammalogists</h1>
  <p>Number 4 inside front cover</p>
  <h2 class="time">Founded <time datetime="1919-04-03">April 3, 1919</time></h2>
  <h2 class="time">Incorporated <time datetime="1920-04-29">April 29, 1920</time></h2>
  <hr />
  <ul>
    <li>C. Hart Merriam, <em>President</em></li>
    <li>E. W. Nelson; Wilfred H. Osgood, <em>Vice-Presidents</em></li>
    <li>H. H. Lane, <em>Recording Secretary</em></li>
    <li>Hartley H. T. Jackson, <em>Corresponding Secretary</em></li>
    <li>J. W. Gidley <em>Treasurer</em></li>
    <li>N. Hollister, <em>Editor</em></li>
  </ul>
  <table id="council">
    <caption>Additional Directors</caption>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th scope="col" id="rg1"><time>1919</time>&#8211;<time>1921</time></th>
        <th scope="col" id="rg2"><time>1920</time>&#8211;<time>1922</time></th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td headers="rg1">Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.</td>
        <td headers="rg2">T. S. Palmer</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td headers="rg1">Glover M. Allen</td>
        <td headers="rg2">Rudolph M. Anderson</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td headers="rg1">Witmer Stone</td>
        <td headers="rg2">M. W. Lyon, Jr.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td headers="rg1">Joseph Grinnell</td>
        <td headers="rg2">W. D. Matthew</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td headers="rg1">John C. Merriam</td>
        <td headers="rg2">Edward A. Preble</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
  <section id="committees" aria-labelledby="commh3">
    <h3 id="commh3">Standing Committees</h3>
    <dl class="committee">
      <dt>Publications:</dt>
        <dd>N. Hollister, <em>Chairman</em>. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., Edward A. Preble, Hartley H. T. Jackson, J. W. Gidley.</dd>
      <dt>Life Histories of Mammals:</dt>
        <dd>Chas. C. Adams, <em>Chairman</em>. Rudolph M. Anderson, Vernon Bailey, Harold C. Bryant, Lee R. Dice, Hartley H. T. Jackson, T. S. Palmer, Ernest Thompson Seton, Walter P. Taylor, Herbert Lang.</dd>
      <dt>Study of Game Mammals:</dt>
        <dd>Charles Sheldon, <em>Chairman</em>. George Bird Grinnell.</dd>
      <dt>Anatomy and Phylogeny:</dt>
        <dd>W. K. Gregory, <em>Chairman</em>. John C. Merriam, H. H. Donaldson, Alexander Wetmore, Hermann von W. Schulte.</dd>
      <dt>Bibliography:</dt>
        <dd>T. S. Palmer, <em>Chairman</em>. Wilfred H. Osgood, Hartley H. T. Jackson.</dd>
      <dt>Conservation</dt>
        <dd>Wilfred H. Osgood, <em>Chairman</em>. E. W. Nelson, Jonathan Dwight.</dd>
    </dl>
  </section>
  <section id="jom" aria-labelledby="jomh3">
    <h3 id="jomh3">The Journal of Mammalogy</h3>
    <p>Subscription rates, $3.50 per year; single numbers $1.00 each. Sent free to all members of the American Society of Mammalogists not in arrears for dues.</p>
    <p>Manuscripts for publication, books and papers for notice and review, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, should be sent to the Editor, N. Hollister, National Zoological Park, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></p>
    <p>Subscriptions, changes of addresses, requests for missing numbers, applications for advertising rates, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, should be sent to the Corresponding Secretary, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hartley H. T. Jackson, Biological Survey, Washington, <abbr>D.C.</abbr></p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>