<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>List of Members</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/backmatter.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/svg.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section aria-labelledby="membersh1">
  <span id="page201" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="201"/>
  <h1 id="membersh1">List of Members of the American Society of Mammalogists</h1>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 201&#8211;212</p>
  
  <p>Names of life members are marked with an asterisk.</p>
  <section id="honorary" aria-labelledby="honoraryh2">
    <h2 id="honoraryh2">Honorary Member</h2>
    <ol class="members">
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Allen, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> J. A., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
    </ol>
  </section>
  <section id="regmembers" aria-labelledby="regmembersh2">
    <h2 id="regmembersh2">Members</h2>
    <ol class="members">
      <li id="A"><span class="hidden">*</span>Abbott, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> William Louis, 400 South 15th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Adams, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> <abbr>Chas.</abbr> C., New York State College of Forestry, Syracuse, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Ahrens, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Theodor G., Landauerstrasse 4, Berlin Wilmersdorf, Germany.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Ainsworth, <abbr>Maj.</abbr> <abbr>Gen.</abbr> <abbr>F. C.</abbr>, The Concord, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Akeley, Carl E., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Albright, Horace M., <abbr>Supt.</abbr> Yellowstone National Park, Yellowstone Park, Wyoming.</li>
      <li>*Alexander, Miss Annie M., Suisun, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Alexander, E. Gordon, 1603 South Street, Lexington, Missouri.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Allen, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Arthur A., McGraw Hall, Ithaca, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Allen, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Glover M., 234 Berkeley Street, Boston, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Anderson, Herbert A., <abbr>R. F. D.</abbr> 1, La Center, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Anderson, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Rudolph M., Biological Division, Geological Survey, Ottawa, Canada.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Andrews, Roy C., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Anthony, A. W., Ironside, Oregon.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Anthony, H. E., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Aschemeier, C. R., <abbr>U. S.</abbr> National Museum, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li id="B"><span class="hidden">*</span>Babcock, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Harold L., Woodleigh Road, Dedham, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Badè, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> William Frederic, 2616 College Avenue, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bagg, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Clinton L., 26 West 46th Street, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, A. M., Juneau, Alaska.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, Bernard, <abbr>R. F. D.</abbr> <abbr>No.</abbr> 1, Elk River, Minnesota.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, Florence Merriam, 1834 Kalorama Road, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, H. B., <abbr>P. O.</abbr> Box 112, Newport News, Virginia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, Harold H., 319 54th Street, Newport News, Virginia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bailey, Vernon, 1834 Kalorama Road, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Baird, Miss Katherine B., 815 Webster Street, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Baker, A. B., National Zoological Park, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Ball, Edward M., East Falls Church, Virginia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bangs, Outram, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Barbour, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Thomas, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Barnes, Claude T., 359 10th Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Barrett, Charles H. M., 1339 Valley Place, <abbr>S. E.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Barrows, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Walter B., <abbr>P. O.</abbr> Box 1047, East Lansing, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bartlett, King, Locke’s Mills, Maine.</li>
      <li><span id="page202" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="202"/><span class="hidden">*</span>Bascom, Kellogg F., Allegheny College, Meadville, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Batchelder, <abbr>Chas.</abbr> F., 7 Kirkland Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bateman, Robert E., Box 1251, Billings, Montana.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Beach, William N., 30 East 42nd Street, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Beck, Rollo H., <abbr>R. R. A.</abbr> 288, San Jose, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Beebe, William, New York Zoological Park, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bell, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> W. B., 803 Rittenhouse Street, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bergtold, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> W. H., 1159 Race Street, Denver, Colorado.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Biggs, O. S., San Jose, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Birdseye, Clarence, Yorktown Heights, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bishop, Sherman C., Division of Zoology, New York State Museum, Albany, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Black, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Davidson, <abbr>Dept.</abbr> of Anatomy, Peking Union Medical College, Peking, China.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Blake, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Irving H., Department of Biology, University of Maine, Orono, Maine.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Boes, Raymond E., 675 South 6th East, Salt Lake City, Utah.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bolt, Benjamin F., 1421 Prospect Avenue, Kansas City, Missouri.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bowles, J. Hooper, The Woodstock, Tacoma, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bradshaw, F., <abbr>Dept.</abbr> of Agriculture, Regina, Alberta, Canada.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brannon, Peter A., Box 358, Montgomery, Alabama.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brimley, C. S., 1135 New Bern Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brimley, H. H., State Museum, Raleigh, North Carolina.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brode, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> H. S., Whitman College, Walla Walla, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brooks, A. B., 186 Lancaster Street, Albany, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brooks, Allan, Okanagan Landing, British Columbia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brooks, Fred E., French Creek, West Virginia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brown, C. Emerson, Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brown, D. E., 87 Lenora Street, Seattle, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brown, E. J., 1609 <abbr>S.</abbr> Van Ness Avenue, Los Angeles, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brown, William L., National Museum, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Brown, Wilmot W., <abbr title="care of">c/o</abbr> Benjamin Hood, Garces, Arizona.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bruette, William, 9 East 40th Street, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bruun, Charles A., Reliance Building, Kansas City, Missouri.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bryant, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Harold C., Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bumstead, <abbr>Col.</abbr> Dale, 504 East Avenue, North, Oak Park, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Bunker, Charles D., Kansas University Museum, Lawrence, Kansas.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burgess, Thornton W., 61 Washington Road, Springfield, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burnett, <abbr>Wm.</abbr> L., State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Colorado.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burns, Frank L., Berwyn, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burrell, Harry, La Mascotte, Doncaster Avenue, Kensington, New South Wales, Australia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burrell, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Harry, [Susan Emily], La Mascotte, Doncaster Avenue, Kensington, New South Wales, Australia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Burrill, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Alfred C., <abbr>U. S.</abbr> Entomological Station, Forest Grove, Oregon.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Butler, Amos W., 52 Downey Avenue, Irvington, Indianapolis, Indiana.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Buwalda, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> John P., Peabody Museum, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.</li>
      <li id="C"><span id="page203" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="203"/><span class="hidden">*</span>Cabrera, Ángel, Calle Claudio, Coello, 115, Madrid, Spain.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Camp, Charles L., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Campbell, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Charles A. R., San Antonio Academy of Medicine, San Antonio, Texas.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Campbell, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> J. A., 8 Edward Street, Toronto, Ontario.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cantwell, George G., 901 West Main Avenue, Puyallup, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Carter, Franklin I., 1321 East 52nd Street, Chicago, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Case, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> E. C., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Chambers, W. Lee, Eagle Rock, Los Angeles County, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Chandler, W. L., Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Chapin, James P., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cheesman, William H., Biological Survey, <abbr>U. S.</abbr> Dept, of Agriculture, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Church, Morton L., Box 1236, Charlotte, North Carolina.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Clark, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Bruce Lawrence, 202 Bacon Hall, University of California, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Clark, Elton, 18 Post Office Square, Boston, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Clark, <abbr>Wm.</abbr> O., Framingham Centre, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Clark, Winslow, Shoreham, Addison County, Vermont.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Clay, C. Irvin, <abbr>P. O.</abbr> Box 353, Eureka, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cockerell, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> T. D. A., 908 Tenth Street, Boulder, Colorado.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Colburn, Albert E., 806 <abbr>S.</abbr> Broadway, Los Angeles, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Conger, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Allen C., Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Conover, Boardman, 6 Scott Street, Chicago, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cooke, Miss May T., 1328 Twelfth Street, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Coolidge, Dane, Dwight Way End, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cooper, J. P., Rome, Georgia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cooper, Moses R., Kalispell, Montana.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Copeland, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Manton, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cornwall, James K., Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cory, <abbr>Chas.</abbr> B., Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Couch, Leo K., Puyallup, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Courtney, Wilbur, Pullman, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Cram, William Everett, Hampton Falls, New Hampshire.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Craven, J. W., 811 18th Street, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Creaser, Charles <abbr>W.</abbr>, 904 State Street, Alma, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Crick, Joe G., Jones-Hicks Ranch, Cuervo, New Mexico.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Criddle, Norman, Treesbank, Manitoba, Canada.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Criddle, Stuart, Treesbank, Manitoba, Canada.</li>
      <li id="D"><span class="hidden">*</span>Dammerman, Karel Willem, Zoological Museum and Laboratory, Buitenzorg, Java</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Davison, Charles Stewart, 59 Wall Street, New York City, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Day, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Lewis J., 3015 Wilson Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dearborn, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Ned, Sacket Harbor, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Deuber, Carl G., State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kansas.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dexter, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> John S., University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dice, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Lee R., Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.</li>
      <li><span id="page204" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="204"/><span class="hidden">*</span>Dickerson, Mary C., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dickey, Donald R., San Rafael Heights, Pasadena, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dickinson, Charles W., 39 Mill Street, Smethport, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dille, Frederick M., Valentine, Nebraska.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dillon, W. Roy, Biological Survey, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dixon, Joseph S., Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Donaldson, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Henry H., The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Dwight, Dr. Jonathan, 43 West 70th Street, New York City.</li>
      <li id="E"><span class="hidden">*</span>Edson, John M., Marietta Road, Bellingham, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Eifrig, C. W. G., 504 Monroe Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Elliott, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jane S., Biological Survey, <abbr>U. S.</abbr> <abbr>Dept.</abbr> Agriculture, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Elrod, <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Morton J., Montana State University, Missoula, Montana.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Evans, Victor J., Ninth Street and Grant Place, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Evermann, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Barton W., California Academy of Sciences, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, California.</li>
      <li id="F"><span class="hidden">*</span>Field, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> <abbr>Geo.</abbr> W., <abbr title="care of">c/o</abbr> <abbr>Capt.</abbr> Frederico Villar, C. A. &#8220;Jose Bonefacio,&#8221; Pernambuco, Brazil.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Finley, William L., 651 East Madison Street, Portland, Oregon.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fisher, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> A. K., The Plymouth, 1236 11th Street, <abbr>N. W.</abbr>, Washington, <abbr>D.C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fisher, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> G. Clyde, American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fleischner, I. N., 207 Ash Street, Portland, Oregon.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fleming, J. H., 267 Rusholme Road, Toronto, Ontario.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Freeman, Daniel, 711 Seventh Street, South, Fargo, North Dakota.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fribley, Earl F., Box 765, Phoenix, Arizona.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Frick, Childs, Roslyn, Long Island, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fuertes, Louis Agassiz, Cornell Heights, Ithaca, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Fuller, Arthur B., Boston Society of Natural History, 234 Berkeley Street, Boston, Massachusetts.</li>
      <li id="G"><span class="hidden">*</span>Gabrielson, Ira N., 220 Post Office Building, Portland, Oregon.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gardner, Leon L., 3440 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Garlough, F. E., 2208 Durant Avenue, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Garretson, M. S., Clifton, New Jersey.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Garrett, Cecil B. D., Box 512, Cranbrook, British Columbia.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gault, Benjamin T., 2313 Washington Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gianini, Charles A., Poland, New York.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gidley, James W., <abbr>U. S.</abbr> National Museum, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gilchrist, D. A., Box 765, Phoenix, Arizona.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gillings, J. F., <abbr>P. O.</abbr> Box 1251, Billings, Montana.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gilman, M. French, Banning, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gilmore, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Melvin R., State Historical Society, Bismarck, North Dakota.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gilpin, F. Robert, 5650 Hazel Avenue, Philadelphia, Pensylvania.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Goethe, C. M., Capital National Bank Building, Sacramento, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Goldman, E. A., Biological Survey, <abbr>U. S.</abbr> <abbr>Dept.</abbr> Agriculture, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Goodwin, George G., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Granger, Walter, American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Grant, Madison, 111 Broadway, New York City.</li>
      <li><span id="page205" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="205"/><span class="hidden">*</span>Gregory, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> William K., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Grinnell, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> George Bird, 238 East 15th Street, New York City.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Grinnell, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Joseph, Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, California.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gunthorp, Horace, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.</li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gutsell, James S., Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, <abbr>D. C.</abbr></li>
      <li><span class="hidden">*</span>Gyldenstolpe, Count Nils, Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum, Stockholm, 50, Sweden.</li>
    </ol>
  </section>
</section>

































</body>
</html>