<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Migrations of the Graysquirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="mgsh1.label">
  <span id="page53" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="53"/>
  <h1 id="mgsh1.label">Migrations of the Graysquirrel (<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolininensis</span>)</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Ernest Thompson Seton</p>
  <p>Volume 1 pages 53&#8211;58 <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/1373740" title="Internet Link to Canonical Article">doi:10.2307/1373740</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="Article Navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li class="nostyle"><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#mgs01">Compiled Accounts of Kennicott and Bachman</a><ol type="a">
        <li><a href="#mgs01.1">After the Trek</a></li>
      </ol></li>
      <li><a href="#mgs02">Seton’s Comments</a></li>
      <li><a href="#mgs03">Numbers</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p>One of the most interesting animal phenomena recorded by the early
naturalists was the migration, or rather the emigration, of the graysquirrel.</p>
    <p>A true migratory animal is one that makes a periodic change of
range, which has a definite going, and a definite return. Thus the
migration of birds, bats, and caribou are definite seasonal changes
followed always by a return movement, but the migration of the graysquirrel
will I think be found in a different class.</p>
    <p>In all the early natural histories this squirrel is called &#8220;migratory,&#8221;
and amazing accounts are given of its armies appearing to devastate
the farms of whole regions. I have found no living man recently, who
has seen one of these and can describe it, so must rest content with a
compilation from two rambling accounts by the naturalists Kennicott
(<a id="abstract.p3.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kennicott-1857" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1857</time> pages 62&#8211;65</a>)
and Bachman
(<a id="abstract.p3.bib2" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#audubon_bachman-1846" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1846</time> pages 265&#8211;276</a>).
The paragraphs from each are followed by the initials &#8220;<abbr>K.</abbr>&#8221; or &#8220;<abbr>B.</abbr>&#8221;</p>
  </section>
  <section id="mgs01" aria-labelledby="mgs01.label">
    <h2 id="mgs01.label">Compiled Accounts of Kennicott and Bachman</h2>
    <blockquote>The most interesting feature in the habits of this animal is the remarkable
migration performed at times by large bodies of them. &#8230; Immense
numbers congregate in autumn, and move off together, continuing their progress
in the same general direction, whatever it may be [nearly all recorded moved
easterly, one only south, and one north], not even turning aside for large streams.
&#8230; They moved along rather leisurely, stopping to feed in the fields, and
upon the abundant nuts and acorns of the forests. So far had they departed
from their accustomed habits that they were seen on the prairie, four or five
miles from any timber; but even there, as usual, they disliked to travel on the
ground, and ran along the fences wherever it was possible. (<abbr>K.</abbr> page 64,65)</blockquote>
    <span id="page54" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="54"/>
    <blockquote>The farmers in the Western wilds regard them with sensations which may be
compared to the anxious apprehensions of the Eastern nations at the flight of the
devouring locust. At such periods, which usually occur in autumn, the squirrels
congregate in different districts of the far Northwest; and in irregular troops
bend their way instinctively in an eastern direction. Mountains, cleared fields,
the narrow bays of our lakes, or our broad rivers, present no unconquerable
impediments. Onward they come, devouring on their way everything that is
suited to their taste, laying waste the corn and wheat-fields of the farmer; and
as their numbers are thinned by the gun, the dog, and the club, others fall in
and fill up the ranks, till they occasion infinite mischief, and call forth more than
empty threats of vengeance. (<abbr>B.</abbr>)</blockquote>
    <blockquote>Ordinarily averse to entering the water, they now take to it boldly, and though
swimming with difficulty, manage to cross broad rivers, like the Niagara and the
Ohio, though many are drowned in the attempt. &#8230;</blockquote>
    <blockquote>Sometimes, when on these migrations, especially after crossing rivers, the
squirrels become so fatigued as to be easily captured, and thousands are then
killed by boys armed merely with sticks and stones. I learn from <abbr>Dr.</abbr> John A.
Kennicott that, during one of these migrations, innumerable squirrels swam
across the river Niagara, and landed near Buffalo, New York, in such a state of
exhaustion that the boys caught them in their hands, or knocked them from the
fences and bushes with poles. (<abbr>K.</abbr> page 64)</blockquote>
    <blockquote>They swam the Hudson in various places between Waterford and Saratoga;
those which we observed crossing the river were swimming deep and awkwardly,
their bodies and tails wholly submerged; several that had been drowned were
carried downwards by the stream, and those which were so fortunate as to reach
the opposite bank were so wet and fatigued, that the boys stationed there with
clubs found no difficulty in securing them alive or in killing them. Their migrations
on that occasion did not, as far as we could learn, extend farther eastward
than the mountains of Vermont; many remained in the county of Rensselaer, and
it was remarked that for several years afterwards squirrels were far more numerous
there than before. It is doubtful whether any ever return to the west, as,
finding forests and food suited to their taste and habits, they take up their per-
manent residence in their newly explored country, where they remain and pro-
pagate their species, until they are gradually thinned off by the increase of
inhabitants, new clearings, and the dexterity of the sportsmen around them. (<abbr>B.</abbr>)</blockquote>
    <section id="mgs01.1" aria-labelledby="mgs01.1.label">
      <h3 id="mgs01.1.label">After the Trek</h3>
      <blockquote>After one of these grand migrations, very few of the species are found in the
localities from which they have moved, and these, as if alarmed at the unusual
solitude, are silent and shy. They rapidly increase in numbers, however, and,
in a few years, are as abundant as before. I am not aware that they ever migrate
except when exceedingly abundant. Of these immense hordes, but few probably
survive. No sudden increase in their numbers was heard of in Southern
Wisconsin after the several migrations from Northern Illinois. Many are drowned
in attempting to cross streams as has been stated; not a few are destroyed by
man; some die from utter exhaustion; and, when thus forced to travel, in an
unnatural manner, upon the ground, they fall an easy prey to rapacious birds
and mammals, all of which feast when the squirrels migrate. (<abbr>K.</abbr> pages 64&#8211;65)</blockquote>
    </section>
  </section>
  <span id="page55" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="55"/>
  <section id="mgs02" aria-label="Seton’s Comments">
    <p id="mgs02.p1">These migrations are now a thing of the past, so that we can but
piece together the accounts of the earlier naturalists, in seeking to
explain such movements of the squirrel population. There are not
many of these records, and those that exist are commonly deficient in
not stating the direction or extent of the migration. The earliest I find
is Kalm
(<a id="mgs02.p1.p3.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kalm-1770" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1770, page 316</a>).
He speaks of a squirrel migration from
the mountains to the lowlands of eastern Pennsylvania in [Sic]
<time>1747</time><sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>.</p>
    <p id="mgs02.p2">The best observations are by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> P. R. Hoy of Racine, Wisconsin.
He witnessed a great migration of squirrels from Wisconsin, southwest,
for four weeks in the early autumn of <time>1842</time>, and again in <time>1847</time>, <time>1852</time>,
and [Sic] <time>1857</time><sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup>.</p>
    <p id="mgs02.p3"><abbr>Dr.</abbr> S. P. Hildreth (Pioneer History of the Ohio Valley), <time>1848</time>, quotes
from the manuscript of Col. James Baker, of the graysquirrel &#8220;coming
in millions from the north to the south, destroying whole fields of corn
in a few days.&#8221;
(<a id="mgs02.p3.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#brayton-1882" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Brayton, <time>1882</time> page 110</a>.)</p>
    <p id="mgs02.p4">Doctor Bachman states
(Bachman, <a id="mgs02.p4.bib2" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#audubon_bachman-1846" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">page 272</a>)
that in the autumn of <time>1808</time> or <time>1809</time> great
hordes came from the west into northern New York and Vermont; and
of yet another migration in <time>1819</time> on the Ohio, 100 miles below Cincinnati,
when for about 130 miles he saw &#8220;large numbers of Squirrels
swimming across the river&#8221; &#8220;strewed as it were on the surface of the
water.&#8221; This is the only available note that indicates the width of the
migrating army.</p>
    <p id="mgs02.p5">Robert Kennicott records a migration
(<a id="mgs02.p5.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kennicott-1857" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Kennicott, page 64</a>)
from Canada across the Niagara
River into western New York. According to the Bay City Tribune (Michigan)
<time datetime="1907-02-17">February 17, 1907</time>, there was a great squirrel migration
there in <time>1866</time>.</p>
    <p>A careful review of the evidence makes it very clear that these
movements of the squirrels were not in any true sense migrations. That
is, they were not seasonal or annual or periodic or balanced by a return
movement of any kind. They were simply wholesale movements of a
huge population from one region to another. Judging from numerous
parallel cases, such a movement could arise only from one of five causes:
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Flood,</span>
  <span role="listitem">fire,</span>
  <span role="listitem">famine,</span>
  <span role="listitem">pests or</span>
  <span role="listitem">over-population.</span>
</span>
There is no evidence
for the first or second; as to famine, Kennicott, who has the most complete
and detailed observations of all, makes a point of it that they are
not driven forth by want of food, for the animals are fat at the time
and the regions they leave still abound with food. Furthermore, the
season when they go forth is early autumn, the time of the greatest
food abundance. The migration that Merriam reports in the Adirondacks
and that Jackson describes in Wisconsin are very small affairs
and in all respects of a different class.</p>
    <span id="page56" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="56"/>
    <p>It is possible that the vast multiplication of nesting places may have
resulted in an insupportable increase of parasites in the shelters so that
the nests had become untenable. But of this there are only two shreds
of evidence at hand. One, the known fact, that overcrowded squirrel
nests breed abundant parasites; second the squirrels are comparatively
scarce after the army has gone. Thus the evidence is far from conclusive.</p>
    <p>We have, then, the last cause to consider&#8212;over-population. The army
has always come from a land of plenty&#8212;a place of ideal squirrel
conditions&#8212;at a time when they seemed at their best, and further, the
time of migration is always just as the broods of the year are full grown.
No one has ever recorded a squirrel migrating from a land when they
were few or moderate in numbers, always from a place where they over-abounded.
No one has witnessed one of these treks since the squirrels
became comparatively scarce.</p>
    <p>This explanation is paralleled by the known causes that send the
Scandinavian lemming and the African springbok millions, out of their
country and on, till they meet their end; and last, probably most
exactly, <em>by the swarming of bees;</em> the sallying forth of the new brood to
seek a new home, for there is not room in their birthplace. In a word
then, the graysquirrel swarms as the bees swarm; this explains their
marching armies. But the dwindling of their numbers has put an end
to their emigrations. I have not yet heard of one since <time>1866</time>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="mgs03" aria-labelledby="mgs03.label">
    <h3 id="mgs03.label">Numbers</h3>
    <p id="mgs03.p1">How are we to form any idea of their numbers in primitive times
when the whole land was one big harvest field of nuts for their chief
benefit?</p>
    <p id="mgs03.p2">The early naturalists seemed satisfied to describe the squirrel hordes as
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;astounding,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;immense,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;myriads&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;incredible,&#8221; or</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;unbelievable,&#8221;</span>
</span>
and we rejoice that Kennicott and others of more exact mind
were born in time to make a more satisfactory record. Kalm relates
(<a id="mgs03.p2.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kalm-1770" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">page 320</a>)
that in the year [Sic] <time>1747</time>
<sup><a href="#footnote.3" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup> the State of Pennsylvania paid
bounties for the killing of 640,000 squirrels. In
&#8220;<span class="worktitle">The Hunter’s Feast</span>,&#8221;
published about <time>1860</time> (page 163) is an account of an all-week Kentucky
squirrel hunt in which the sides with 6 guns on each, killed respectively
5000 and 4780 squirrels.</p>
    <p id="mgs03.p3">Robert Munro writes in 1804 of squirrel hunts in western New York
in which upwards of 2000 squirrels have sometimes been killed in one
day.
(<a id="mgs03.p3.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#merriam-1886" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Merriam, <time>1886</time> page 229</a>.)</p>
    <span id="page57" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="57"/>
    <p id="mgs03.p4"><abbr>Dr.</abbr> P. R. Hoy knew of &#8220;an Ohio hunter that killed 160 in one day
in an &#8216;0ff season.&#8217; In parts of Michigan, Illinois, Southern Wisconsin
and Indiana, they are no less numerous.&#8221;
(<a id="mgs03.p4.bib1" href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kennicott-1857" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Kennicott, <time>1857</time> page 63</a>.)
Doctor Bachman saw 130 miles of the Ohio &#8220;strewed&#8221; with them in
<time>1819</time>; an old settler of Bay City, Michigan, records (Bay City Tribune,
<time datetime="1907-02-17">17 February 1907</time>)
that in the migration of <time>1866</time>, one of the last, he counted
1400 squirrels while driving 2 miles.</p>
    <p>Finally if we recall, as the third dimension, that Doctor Hoy found
it took a month for the army to pass, we have some basis for calculation.
Allowing that the squirrels traveled 5 miles a day, we have an army,
130 miles wide, 150 miles long, in which as many as 1400 might be seen
by the road within 2 miles. That road must have been through the
woods, therefore 20 yards on each side would be the limit of view. This
would mean 30,000 to the square mile, or 450,000,000 squirrels in the
dimensions recorded. Such numbers seem incredible, and yet that is
what the old naturalists said they were, <em>unbelievable</em>, <em>incredible</em>, etc.</p>
    <p>Even if we largely discount these figures, we must remember that
there are many such armies and that only a small section of the range
was represented; not more than one-fortieth of it.</p>
    <p>A corroboration of these high rates is found in a recent occurrence.
The graysquirrels in Central Park, New York, became over-many. It
was decided to thin them out; 300 were shot in one week without
making much perceptible difference. There were at least twice as
many left in the woods which cover nearly half of this 800-acre park.
That is, there were over 1000 to the 300 acres of timber.</p>
    <p>In my recollection of a squirrel woods in Ontario, <time>1887</time>, the numbers
in Central Park are not to be compared to those in the northern woods.
They were at least three times as numerous in the latter and yet we
knew that there were about 3 to the acre in the park.</p>
    <p>In western Texas there is, according to the Biological Survey, a
prairiedog town of 25,000 square miles, with an estimated population
of 400,000,000 or 25 to the acre. This is probably a higher rate than
the graysquirrel ever attained to, but it shows the possibilities even
with an animal of more than double the size.</p>
    <p>The range of the graysquirrel is about 1,000,000 square miles; allowing,
that in half of this, they were scarce, and that in the teeming parts
they were no more numerous than in Central Park, we have an estimate
of 1,000,000,000 as the lowest guess at the primitive number that one
can arrive at. But we have noted above one of several armies that
totaled nearly half a billion. Who then can doubt, in view of this,
<span id="page58" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="58"/>
that the graysquirrel population in the palmy days of <time>1800</time> may easily
have numbered several billions.</p>
    <p>These great movements have never been clearly observed. The only
way at present possible to fill the gap is by collecting the testimony of
eyewitnesses&#8212;the old-timers who are passing away&#8212;for I have little
faith in any great emigration since <time>1870</time>. That was about the latest
date at which primitive conditions continued anywhere in the northern
Mississippi Valey.</p>
    <p>Will not our young naturalists render service now by interviewing
all available old-timers&#8212;the men who joined in the squirrel hunts of
the <time datetime="1860"><abbr title="1860">’60</abbr></time>’s&#8212;and
make as full a record as possible of the time, place,
extent, direction, etc., of every emigration that can be traced, together
with facts that bear upon its cause and results or that in any way offer
interesting light?</p>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The actual text by Kalm specifies &#8220;as I experienced in the autumn of the year <time>1749</time>&#8221;</p></aside>

    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2]
In Kennicott 1847, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> P. R. Hoy only <em>predicted</em> the 1857 migration. The paper by Kennicott was published in 1857 <em>before</em> the prediction could be tested.</p></aside>

    <aside aria-label="Footnote 3" id="footnote.3" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[3]
The actual text by Kalm specifies &#8220;from <time datetime="1749-01-01">the first of January 1749</time>, to <time datetime="1750-01-01">the first of January 1750</time>&#8221;</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>