<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Evolution and Nomenclature</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="nomen.label">
  <p>ROUGH DRAFT THAT CLEARLY NEEDS SOME REWRITING. SOME CITATIONS NEEDED.</p>
  <h1 id="nomen.label">Evolution and Nomenclature</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Michael A. Peters</p>
  <section id="introduction" aria-labelledby="introduction.label">
    <h2 id="introduction.label">Introduction</h2>
    <p>This is written as an essay. Please read it that way rather than as a peer reviewed article.</p>
    <p>The purpose of this essay&#8212;academic journal articles are generally written for an academic audience. Pipfrosch Press publishes for a general audience. Many members of a general audience will need more than a glossary to fully grasp some of the discussions related to evolution and taxonomy within this publication. Hopefully this essay can help provide some of the concepts needed, allowing the reader to do further research on their own.</p>
    <hr />
    <p>I would like to take a moment to divulge something about my past. It use to be embarrasing to me but that was just my pride.</p>
    <p>Up until my early 20s, before the Internet was available to me or generally available to the masses, I actually was a so-called &#8216;Young Earth Creationist&#8217;. Please do not assume such people are idiots, many of them are simply misguided as I was.</p>
    <p>When I watched a video produced by Kent Hovind (who sometimes calls himself &#8216;Doctor Dino&#8217;) that mocked &#8216;cladistics&#8217;, I had actually not heard the term &#8216;cladistics&#8217; before. Wanting to know more about what it was he was mocking, I went to the library at my community college. What I read resulted in two things:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Cladistics is conceptually beautiful, absolutely beautiful. The concepts made so much sense. Logical, well thought out, it was a definite epiphany moment for me. Reading about cladistics helped me understand why many of my objections to evolution were without merit.</li>
      <li>It became quite clear to me Kent Hovind is a con artist. He was intentionally misrepresenting cladistics when he mocked it in order to push his narrative and sell his books and videos. His goal was the dishonest parting of people from their money.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Some people in the <abbr>YEC</abbr> camp are idiots but then again, so are some in the evolution camp. Please remember that there is a difference between believing a lie because of willful ignorance and believing a lie because of circumstantial ignorance. To dismiss the latter as idiots, as many evolutionists <em>take pleasure</em> in doing, is the same kind of arrogance that con artists like Kent Hovind display. To quote Bill and Ted&#8212;&#8220;Be excellent to each other&#8230;&#8221;.</p>
    <p>Also when reading this, note that I like the oxford comma and I only like ending punction inside a quotation mark when the ending punctuation is part of the actual quotation. Otherwise I put ending punctuation outside the quotation, that makes more logical sense to me. I apologize if either of those are pet peeves of yours. Some English teachers would chastise me for both rather than look at the content of what I was writing. For neuro-divergent students, being forced to write in a way that does not make sense because &#8216;the rules are the rules&#8217; can be a damaging experience. I wish more teachers understood that. Maybe that is why I love nature, our rules and constructs do not matter to nature and there is nothing a teacher (or anyone else) can do to change that. In many respects, were we to anthropomorphize nature, nature would be neuro-divergent.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="evolution" aria-labelledby="evolution.label">
    <h2 id="evolution.label">A View of Evolution and Natural Selection</h2>
    <p>After my cladistics epiphany I started researching the topic of evolution and the processes behind it. There was a particularly good book on evolution in the Contra Costa College library. The title escapes me but the author was botanist G. Ledyard Stebbins. That I remember because of the similarity of the name to herpetologist Dr. Robert C. Stebbins.</p>
    <p>In that book was a statement conceptually very much like the following though this quote from memory is probably not an exact quote:</p>
    <blockquote>&#8220;When a population has adapted to new conditions such that it would be required to adapt to its former conditions in a novel way rather than reverting, then evolution has occurred.&#8221;</blockquote>
    <p>When I read that statement, it was like a light bulb went on in my head. I suddenly made a new conceptual connection, Natural Selection is part of the process by which evolution takes place but Natural Selection itself is not actually evolution.</p>
    <p>I did not take that statement to imply passing that test is <em>required</em> for evolution to have happened, but rather that test is an indication that it <em>has</em> happened. I took the statement to mean that evolution can happen without the conditions necessary to pass that test being true, but when those conditions are true then there is no doubt evolution has taken place.</p>
    <p>Natural selection is the process by which the allele frequency within a population shifts towards the alleles (variations of genes) that result in a phenotype (the expression of the alleles) that gives a statistical advantage towards reproduction.</p>
    <p>A common example of this type of shift in allele frequency is in the expressed coloration of prey species. As a species colonizes a new area, or as the habitat in the area where it is already established changes, certain allele combinations related to color and pattern will give some individuals better camouflage against predation. This reduces the odds that the individial will be eaten before it can pass on its alleles, increasing the offspring within the population that have a similar set of alleles.</p>
    <p>A well documented example of this taking place is the Peppered Moth (<span class="taxon">Biston betularia</span>) [Linnæus, 1758] during the industrial revolution. This moth was colored to avoid predation on tree trunks. As coal pollution caused the color of the bark to change, the coloration of the moth adapted with the change of the color of the bark. Moths that did not have a coloration to match the changing bark color were more likely to be eaten, while those that had a coloration closer to the tree bark were more likely to survive and reproduce. When pollution decreased and the tree bark color reverted in response, then the typical moth coloration reverted as well.</p>
    <p>The Peppered Moth during the industrial revolution is often cited as an observed demonstration of evolution but actually it is only an observed demonstration of Natural Selection, part of the <em>process</em> of evolution but (in my <em>opinion</em>) not evolution itself. Whether or not novel alleles were involved I do not know. When the tree bark went back to a lighter color, it appears that the Peppered Moth simply reverted rather than adapting to its former conditions in a novel way.</p>
    <p>The change of a population towards a different color and/or pattern variation than the founding stock can involve new mutations resulting in novel alleles but it frequently does not involve new mutations. Very often the alleles needed for the change are already present, it is just a matter of the right combination of alleles for the given condition. This is one of the reasons why populations with low genetic diversity are at a higher risk of extirpation. They simply are not able to adapt as quickly to changing conditions, including novel diseases.</p>
    <p>When a phenotype change occurs purely as a result of Natural Selection, I do not consider it to be evolution. The population has not evolved new genetics that did not previously exist, it is still is playing the card game with same deck of cards. <strong>Disclosure</strong>: It is important for the reader to understand that many biologists disagree with me on this and do consider a change in allele frequency to be evolution even if no novel alleles are involved. I encourage the reader to make up their own mind, unless the reader is a student, in which case the reader should use the definition of their teacher at least until no longer in that class.</p>
    <p>Mutations in alleles (copying errors) happen with some frequency. Very often these mutations have a negative effect on the expressed genotype or no effect at all. Nature does not select for negative or neutral mutations.</p>
    <p>If the effect is negative, the new allele usually only persists through many generations if the mutation is a recessive allele, meaning that it does not get expressed unless both copies of the allele (one from each parent) are the negative mutation. In such cases the allele acts as a neutral allele while in a heterozygous pair with the dominant allele that is actually expressed.</p>
    <p>Albinism (lack of or reduced ability to produce melanin) in animals is frequently recessive in nature. In many (most?) species albinism greatly reduces the odds of survival so an albinism mutation that is not recessive in nature will quickly be removed from the proverbial gene pool. However when albinism is recessive, those that carry the defective allele will only express albinism if they received a copy of the allele from both parents. This allows the albinism allele to persist within the gene pool even though it is negative in the homozygous form where it is expressed.</p>
    <p>Random mutations are not the only way that novel alleles enter a population’s gene pool. It has been shown that sometimes bacteria can transfer alleles from one species to another (this is in fact how we learned to create <abbr>GMO</abbr> crops). Introgression through hybridization with a genetically compatible population can also bring novel alleles into a population’s gene pool.</p>
    <section id="graywolf" aria-labelledby="graywolf.label">
      <h3 id="graywolf.label">Gray Wolf Melanism</h3>
      <p>In the northern part of North America, many Gray Wolves (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus</span>) [Linnæus, 1758] have a black coat. The allele that causes this mutation appears to actually have first appeared in Domestic Dogs (<span class="taxon">Canis familiaris</span>) [Linnæus, 1758] <em>after</em> the two lineages diverged. The speculation is that a hybrid event occurred with the pariah domestic dogs that the ancestors of North America’s indigenous people brought with them across the Bering land bridge.</p>
      <p>Hybrids between wolves and dogs rarely survive in the wild, but at some point at least one did. That particular mutated allele not only only causes the melanism resulting in the black coat but it also has a benefit to the immune system, which would explain why nature selected for that allele while most other mutations in <span class="taxon">Canis familiaris</span> after the lineages diverged did not persist within the <span class="taxon">Canis lupus</span> population.</p>
      <p>Between 10k and 15k years ago, North America experienced mass extinctions of much of our native fauna. Gray Wolves survived however it is my <em>suspicion</em> that their numbers were reduced during this period. When numbers are reduced, it is not uncommon for adults of one species to seek mates with another species. This, I suspect, resulted in increased hybridization events between the Gray Wolf and the pariah Domestic Dogs that resulted in some offspring surviving to bring the allele that causes a dark coat into the Gray Wolf population.</p>
      <p>Black wolves have fairly recently been spotted in the Italian Wolf (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus italicus</span>) [Altobello, 1921] population. That population has suffered severe declines and there are now documented hybrids with domestic dogs in that population, the hybrids often possessing the dew claw that is common in domestic dogs but that gray wolves lack.</p>
      <p>It is possible that the same melanism mutation that first appeared in domestic dogs has entered into the Italian Gray Wolf population through hybridization and introgression, as it did in North American wolves. It could also be a novel mutation. At this point I do not know if the origin of melanism in Italian wolves has yet been determined.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="whenevolution" aria-labelledby="whenevolution.label">
      <h3 id="whenevolution.label">When Evolution Has Occurred</h3>
      <p>When novel alleles enter a population either through mutation, bacterial transfer, or introgression via hybridization <strong>and</strong> Natural Selection then selects for those alleles either to help a population adapt to new conditions or to better adapt to current conditions, then it is my position that evolution has occurred. The population has evolved new genetics that did not previously exist, it is now playing the card game with a different deck of cards.</p>
      <p>It is important to understand that this does not mean the population is now a different species. What we define as a species is a human construct used to allow us to classify life forms and try to understand their evolutionary relationships towards each other. The evolutionary changes constantly happening within a population do not require a different classification under our human construct.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="species" aria-labelledby="species.label">
    <h2 id="species.label">The Species Construct</h2>
    <p>How we define a species actually to a large extent depends upon what our purpose is. There are probably uses of the term that do not fit either model I am about to present, but generally at least with the part of life sciences that I dive into, there are two distinctly different general definitions of species:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><a href="#chronospecies">Chronospecies</a></li>
      <li><a href="#recentspecies">Recent Species</a></li>
    </ol>
    <section id="chronospecies" aria-labelledby="chronospecies.label">
      <h3 id="chronospecies.label">Chronospecies</h3>
      <p>A chronospecies is a morphological snap-shot in time of a population. Evolution is an ongoing process, novel alleles are constantly entering a population gene pool that may be selected for resulting in diagnosable morphological changes within the population.</p>
      <p>When a chronospecies is defined, the definition is based upon fossils that are different than other defined chronospecies. In some cases, there may be modern examples of modern extant species that are morphologically very similar or even indistiguishable from the chronospecies but in many cases a chronospecies represents a morphology that appears to be extinct.</p>
      <p>It is very important to understand that an &#8216;extinct&#8217; chronospecies does <em>not</em> mean descendants of that species are no longer present.</p>
      <p>For an example of an extinct chronospecies with probable living descendants, look at Leonard’s Muskrat (<span class="taxon">Neofiber leonardi</span>) [Hibbard, 1943].</p>
      <p>That species is a chronospecies known only from the fossil record, musk rat fossils with the same morphology have not been found after the Pleistocene (citation needed) but there is strong evidence the species did not vanish. Rather, through the process of evolution, it morphed into the recent species we know today as the Florida Water Rat (<span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span>) [True, 1884].</p>
    </section>
    <section id="recentspecies" aria-labelledby="recentspecies.label">
      <h3 id="recentspecies.label">Recent Species</h3>
      <p>A recent species I define as a species that either is still extant or <em>recently</em> extinct, and I define <em>recently</em> as in the era of when Modern Man (<span class="taxon">Homo sapiens sapiens</span>) [Linnæus, 1758] dispersed from Africa and started killing things off with our fancy tools and command of fire.</p>
      <p>One could say that a recent species is just the latest incarnation of a chronospecies that happened to coexist with us, but it is far more than that. We have the ability to study them in much better detail, often distinguishing between species that would not readily be distinguishable strictly based upon morphology from a limited fossil record.</p>
      <p>This allows us to apply additional criteria in our construct of species when we are dealing with recent species, particularly extant recent species.</p>
      <p>If all we had to go on were fossils that considerably predate us, the Burmese Python (<span class="taxon">Python bivittatus</span>) [Kuhl, 1820] and the Indian Rock Python (<span class="taxon">Python molurus</span>) [Linnæus, 1758] would probably be classified as the same chronospecies. However since they are recent species we can study, we are able to determine that they are in fact on different evolutionary paths and should be treated as different species.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="population" aria-labelledby="population.label">
    <h2 id="population.label">Population</h2>
    <p>Before I define the species construct within the scope of recent species, I need to explain what a population is within the scope of a recent species.</p>
    <p>In the context of species that primarily reproduce through genetic recombination involving gametes (a process commonly referred to as sexual reproduction in the context of animals), a population can be thought of as a grouping of sexually compatible organisms that are likely to seek each other out as mates for the purpose of sexual reproduction.</p>
    <p>That definition of a population is far from perfect as it does not take into account species that primarily reproduce through asexual means (<abbr>e.g.</abbr> some species of whiptail lizards), kleptogenesis (<abbr>e.g.</abbr> some species of mole salamanders), or species such as many ants and bees where most members of the population are not capable of reproduction but exist for the benefit of the colony.</p>
    <p>For social mammals like ungulates, a herd is an example of a population. For more solitary mammals like the Cougar (<span class="taxon">Puma concolor</span>) [Linnæus, 1771] it can be thought of as a geolographical area where many individual territories exist and overlap.</p>
    <section id="recruitment" aria-labelledby="recruitment.label">
      <h3 id="recruitment.label">Recruitment</h3>
      <p>This concept does not necessarily apply to all populations, but within a population there often is a concept referred to as <em>recruitment</em>. As either adult members of the population die or as ecological conditions permit, a population will recruit new members into the adult population. Many of these are recruited from young born into the population and many are recruited from young that dispersed from other populations. The causes of dispersal from one population to another can be varied but dispersal and recruitment is very important in helping to understand what a species is.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="especies" aria-labelledby="especies.label">
    <h2 id="especies.label">Evolutionary Species Concept</h2>
    <p>With the evolutionary species concept when two populations are on the same evolutionary path, they are said to be the same species. When two populations are on different evolutionary paths, they are said to be distinct species.</p>
    <p>When determining whether or not two populations are on the same evolutionary path, biologists try to determine whether or not there is a barrier to gene flow between the two populations.</p>
    <p>There are many potential causes of a barrier to gene flow. The most obvious cause of a barrier to gene flow is of course a genetic barrier. When a mating between members born into two different populations either can not or are unlikely to produce fertile offspring then the two populations are clearly distinct species. One such example would be the American Beaver (<span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span>) [Kuhl, 1820] and the Eurasian Beaver (<span class="taxon">Castor fiber</span>) [Linnæus, 1758].</p>
    <p>In some cases, the populations seem to be genetically compatible and produce fertile young but nature selects against the hybrids. An example of this would be with the Oregon Gartersnake (<span class="taxon">Thamnophis atratus hydrophilus</span>) [Fitch, 1936] and the Sierra Gartersnake (<span class="taxon">Thamnophis couchii</span>) [Kennicott in Baird, 1859] in the Pitt River drainage of Shasta County. Hybrids do seem to happen, but the hybrids rarely pass on their genetics to another generation although it does occassionally happen.</p>
    <p>Natural history can also be a barrier to gene flow. The previously mentioned Indian Rock Python (<span class="taxon">Python molurus</span>) and Burmese Python (<span class="taxon">Python bivittatus</span>) are genetically compatible and hybrids are created in captive conditions, but in the wild they live in very different types of habitat resulting in a barrier to gene flow between the two.</p>
    <p>A small percentage of the Burmese Pythons in Florida have some alleles from the Indian Rock Python which is likely the result of captive produced hybrids that were released into Florida. During the 1980s, I remember the East Bay Vivarium had some captive bred pythons for sale that were specifically labeled &#8216;&#188; Indian, &#190; Burmese&#8217;. In India where both species naturally occur, hybrids between the two populations either do not happen or seldomly happen, their natural history is a barrier to gene flow.</p>
    <p>Geography also often results in a barrier to gene flow between two populations. If alleles that develop within one population simply can not enter another population because of current geographical barriers, then the populations may in fact be on different evolutionary paths. This one is a little bit harder for me to personally use as a valid reason to distinguish two populations as distinct species because a geographical barrier to gene flow is often temporary. If the isolation is long enough, one of the other barriers to gene flow may result so that the populations continue to have a barrier to gene flow if and when contact happens again, but they may not.</p>
    <p>The California Tiger Salamander (<span class="taxon">Ambystoma californiense</span>) [Gray, 1853] and the Barred Tiger Salamander (<span class="taxon">Ambystoma mavortium</span>) [Baird, 1850] have a significant geographical barrier but when the latter was sold as fishing bait in California as larvae, some were released where they survived to hybridize with the former and nature did not select against the hybrids. Quite the opposite, nature appears to be selecting for the hybrids, changing the natural evolutionary path of the California Tiger Salamander. In that case the two are still on different evolutionary paths, alleles still do not freely flow between the two, but some of the Barred Tiger Salamander alleles have introgressed into the California Tiger Salamander as a result of human carelessness.</p>
    <p>In summary, with the evolutionary species concept, when two populations have a barrier to gene flow they are on different evolutionary paths and are considered to be distinct species. However when two populations freely flow genes, either through direct recruitment from each other or with other populations between them, they are on the same evolutionary path and are considered to be the same species.</p>
    <p>Historically, such as when Volume 1 of the Journal of Mammalogy was first published, the naturalist had to make a judgment call as to whether or not a specimen represented a population that belonged to part of an already described species or whether or not the specimen represented something different. Today, judgment calls are still often involved, but the nayuralist can often use technology to look at the alleles in a population and compare them with alleles in other populations to determine whether or not there is likely a barrier to gene flow that warrants distinct species status.</p>
    <p>Please keep in mind that the evolutionary species concept is not perfect for defining a species construct, nature does what nature does regardless of our constructs and not all populations we define as species fit this construct. It does however work quite well for defining species where the populations reproduce through the genetic recombination of gametes.</p>
    
  </section>
  <section id="taxonomy" aria-labelledby="taxonomy.label">
    <h2 id="taxonomy.label">Taxonomy</h2>
    <p>In college I studied mathematics. In Mathematics, we have a concept called Quantization.</p>
    <p><dfn>Quantization</dfn> is the process by which values in a larger (often infinite) set are mapped to smaller finite set. For example, with humans there are large set of defined ethnic groups that an anthropologist will write about but when the government publishes census data, people who belong to ethnic groups that would be distinct to an anthropologist are often mapped to the same ethnicity. The Winnemem Wintu and the Seminole are two distinctly different groups of people but would both be mapped to Native American despite their distinctive differences because Native American is the closest match for both within the smaller set that the government uses for its census data. That is the concept of quantization, even though in that example, numerical quantities are not involved.</p>
    <p>Quantization is a one way process. If you know someone is part of the Winnemem Wintu tribe or the Seminole tribe, you know they would be mapped to Native American in census data but if you know someone is mapped to Native American in the census data, you do not know if they are Winnemem Wintu, Seminole, or one of the many other indigenous people groups within the Americas. The designation of Native American has what in math we call <dfn>Quantization Error</dfn> because it is not possible to determine the value in the original larger set from the mapped value in the smaller set. We can determine that someone designated as Native American does not identify as a Torres Strait Islander or Persian as those people groups do not map to Native American but we know nothing about which people group within the Americas they do identify with.</p>
    <p>In a nutshell, Quantization can be thought of as a rounded value or approximation, and Quantization Error can be thought of as the difference between the original value and that rounded value or approximation.</p>
    <p>Taxonomy is a structured quantization of the evolutionary relationships between different species. The quantization is necessary in order to simplify classification so that it is easier for the human mind to deal with and sort species into a manageable classification, but it does not present an accurate picture of evolutionary relationships without errors.</p>
    <p>For a more accurate picture of evolutionary relationships with fewer errors, we need cladistics.</p>
    <p>In pure concept, cladistics is without quantization error although we will never have the ability to create perfect cladograms for all life on earth simply because too much information will always be missing, but when talking about evolutionary relationships, cladistics is a better tool than taxonomy.</p>
    <p>With modern taxonomy, cladistics is often used to refine the taxonomical classification and reduce the quantization error with respect to evolutionary relationships but there will always be quantization error in taxonomy.</p>
    <p>I encourage the reader to research cladistics. At some point I hope Pipfrosch Press will be able to publish an <em>accurate</em> publication on cladistics that explains it with a deeper understanding than I currently have, but in a way that someone without an academic background can grasp most of what is presented. This is not that publication. I bring it cladistics to emphasize that taxonomy <em>approximates</em> evolutionary relationships but not without some significant quantization error.</p>
    <section id="taxonomy.hierarchy" aria-labelledby="taxonomy.hierarchy.label">
      <h3 id="taxonomy.hierarchy.label">Taxonomy Hierarchy</h3>
      <p>Taxonomy as we now know it is often credited to Carol Linnæus, although his system is actually an extension of a system already in use for botany that predates his system.</p>
      <p>In his system, there are seven hierarchical ranks for a life form:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Kingdom</li>
        <li>Phylum</li>
        <li>Class</li>
        <li>Order</li>
        <li>Family</li>
        <li>Genus</li>
        <li>Species</li>
      </ol>
      <p>With modern implementations, a higher rank of <strong>Domain</strong> above <strong>Kingdom</strong> is <em>sometimes</em> used. I personally tend to ignore that rank, it is new and I am not sure it actually adds anything useful.</p>
      <p>To the best of my knowledge, when using domain, all macro biology organisms would fall within the &#8216;Eukarya&#8217; domain. Marine biology has some organisms that are actually composed of independent single cell organism that work together as a collective organism, I am not sure if they are &#8216;Eukarya&#8217; or not.</p>
      <p>With many of the taxonomy ranks, you will sometimes see a pseudo-rank of the same name but with a prefix of <strong>sub</strong> or less commonly <strong>super</strong> used to indication evolutionary relationships. This corrects for some of the quantization error. For example, the subgenus <span class="taxon">Amerana</span> within the genus <span class="taxon">Rana</span> indicates a group of species with a closer evolutionary relationship to each other than with other frogs within the genus <span class="taxon">Rana</span>. Even that is not without quantization problems. For example, some members of the suborder Lacertilia have a closer evolutionary relationship to members of the suborder Serpentine than to other members of the suborder Lacertilia.</p>
      <p>With the exception of academic journal articles specifically dealing with evolution, species is usually the taxonomy rank seen with a <strong>sub</strong> prefix added to indicate a grouping just below the species level. It should be noted however that some scientists reject the concept of subspecies, prefering to only use a cladogram when referencing lineages within a species is necessary.</p>
      <p>A <dfn>monophyletic</dfn> rank is a taxonomy rank where every organism within that rank has a most recent common ancestor to the exclusion of organisms that are not classified in that rank. That is to say, the taxonomy rank matches a grouping in a cladogram.</p>
      <p>A <dfn>polyphyletic</dfn> rank is a taxonomy rank in which some organisms within the rank have a most recent common ancestor with some organism outside the rank hierarchy to the exclusion of some organisms within that rank. A polyphyletic rank is a result of the quantization error needed to classify species within the nice seven level hierarchy that Carol Linnæus proposed and is currently used.</p>
      <p>For example, all birds are classified within the class rank Aves. This is a monophyletic class as all organisms within the class have a closer evolutionary relationship to each other than to organisms that are not classified within Aves.</p>
      <p>On the other hand, all lizards, snakes, turtles, crocodilians, and the tuatara (along with some extinct groups, such as dinosaurs) are classified within the class rank Reptilia. However some members of the class, such as crocodilians, have a closer evolutionary relationship to birds than they do with some other members of that class, such as Lizards. As such, Reptilia is a polyphyletic class with an obvious quantization error.</p>
      <p>When naturalists first started classifying animals, Reptilia was sort of a dumping ground. Any chordate that was not a Mammal, Bird, Fish, or Amphibian was placed into Reptilia. It is possible, dare I say probable, that in the future we will see new groups with the taxonomy rank of Class that may help resolve the polyphyletic nature of Reptilia but there will <em>always</em> be polyphyletic ranks within the hierarchical classification system simply because of how evolution works.</p>
      <p>Some (who? citation needed) have proposed that the Western Fence Lizard (<span class="taxon">Sceloporus occidentalis</span>) [Baird and Girard, 1852] evolved from within the Eastern Fence Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus) [Bosc and Daudin, 1801] yet it is a distinct species. If this is the case, the Eastern Fence Lizard would be polyphyletic because there would be organisms within that species that have a closer evolutionary relationship to Western Fence Lizards than other members of their own species.</p>
      <p>A cladogram is capable of conveying this but the seven level hierarchical taxonomy system developed by Carol Linnæus simply can not.</p>
      <p>When polyphyletic groups within taxonomy can be fixed by a change to the taxonomy classification, they generally are fixed. This is why we sometimes see a species moved from one genus into another, a species invalidated, or a species split. It is important however to keep in mind that taxonomy is quantization and as a result there will <em>always</em> be quantization error in the form of polyphiletic groupings.</p>
      <p>Despite the quantization error, the seven level hierarchical taxonomy system developed by Carol Linnæus is extremely useful and has stood the test of time. It is a very good system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="taxonomy.conventions" aria-labelledby="taxonomy.conventions.label">
      <h3 id="taxonomy.conventions.label">Taxonomy Conventions</h3>
      <p>The rankings from Kindom (or Domain) to Genus are generally written using an upper case letter first followed by lower case letters. For the rank of species and below (subspecies and/or variety) the rank is all lowercase.</p>
      <p>The names for a ranking are usually Latinized although many of them actually come from other languages. The species and, when present, subspecies rank should match the gener of the genus rank.</p>
      <p>A species is usually just referred to by the binomial nomenclature including just the genus and species ranks, or when applicable, the trinomial nomenclature including just the genus, species, and subspecies.</p>
      <p>Ranks above the species level are capitalized when written, species and below are not capitalized.</p>
      <p>Ranks of genus and below are usually either italicized or underlined, ranks above the genus level generally are not.</p>
      <p>In the past, ligatures and accent marks were sometimes used in the nomenclature for a rank. This is no longer done except when reproducing a historic work that used them. Ligatures are now fully expanded and accent marks are now left off.</p>
      <p>Generally when referencing the taxonomy of an organism, either binomial or trinomial nomenclature is used without specifying the higher ranks.</p>
      <p>Binomial nomenclature is the specification of just the genus and species. Trinomial nomenclature is the binomial nomenclature with a subspecies added. Sometimes a lower vase <span class="taxon">v.</span> follows the binomial or trinomial nomenclature to indicate a variety, though variety is not actually part of the taxonomy classification. Sometimes a lower case <span class="taxon">kl.</span> follows the genus name but precedes the species name to indicate the species is a klepto species. I have seen it both italicized and non-italicized.</p>
      <p>When the binomial or trinomial nomenclature directly follow the common name for the organism, they are generally placed within parenthesis. The parenthesis are generally not italicized or underlined. When the binomial or trinomial nomenclature do not directly follow the common name, they are generally not placed within parenthesis.</p>
      <p>Sometime the genus and/or species name will be abbreviated by just using the first letter followed by a period, especially in informal communications. In academic papers this is generally only done when the full name has previously been used in the same article so that any ambiguity is avoided. In academic papers, I typically only see this done when discussing multiple subspecies of the same species. Then the genus and subspecies are often abbreviated <em>after</em> the first use with the full subspecies. However I have seen abbreviations used in other contexts, but always after the full use of the genus and species to avoid ambiguity.</p>
      <p>Frequently the first use of a genus, binomial, or trimomial nomenclature will by followed by the name of the naturalist(s) that described the nomenclature usually also accompanied by the year. This seems to be particulary common if the species has since been assigned to a different genus than the original description but that is not always the case. This citation is often called the &#8216;authority&#8217;. I <em>personally</em> like to put the authority inside square brackets when I use them, distinguisging them from other cited works, but I do not believe there is a standard for how the authority is cited. Sometimes the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> <abbr>TSN</abbr> number for a taxon is included with the authority for further clarification.</p>
      <p>If the &#8216;authority&#8217; is Linnæus himself (Linné after <time>1761</time>) it is often abbreviated as &#8216;L.&#8217; simply because his authority is the authority for a large number of species. There are a few other official abbreviations used in Botany. I <em>personally</em> do not like the practice of using abbreviations for an authority.</p>
      <p>When an authority is not present, the reader can assume the nomenclature refers to the original description of the genus, species, or subspecies as the authority. However when the authority is specified, the reader should be aware that in <em>some cases</em> the article author is referring to a description by an authority <em>other than the first description</em> to use that nomenclature. This is uncommon but there are valid reasons to do so, especially with cases where there is ambiguity because the taxonomy rank was described without a type specimen or the type specimen has been lost.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="dogs" aria-labelledby="dogs.label">
    <h2 id="dogs.label">Taxonomy Rank of Domestic Dogs</h2>
    <p>Many sources&#8212;including the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> as of the time of writing&#8212;classify the Domestic Dog as a subspecies of the Gray Wolf using the trinomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Canis lupis familiaris</span>.</p>
    <p>Under the Evolutionary Species Concept, I believe this is incorrect.</p>
    <p>First of all, to be a subspecies of the Gray Wolf, Domestic Dogs must have evolved within Gray Wolves. It is quite possible that they did involve within Gray Wolves but there is a good argument against it as well.</p>
    <p>Most modern dog breeds do not survive when abandoned and when they do survive when abandoned, it is only in urban areas where there is refuse for them to scavenge. However there are some breeds that fare better without humans. These are the so-called landrace &#8216;Pariah&#8217; breeds that are less domesticated than modern breeds. Pariah breeds include the Australian Dingo, the Carolina Dog (sometimes called American Dingo), the Basenji, and several others.</p>
    <p>When these dog breeds are feral, their natural history is actually closer to the natural history of the Coyote (<span class="taxon">Canis latrans</span>) [Say 1823] than the Gray Wolf. Genetically they are closer to the Gray Wolf and they certainly did not come from the Coyote, but they also may not have come from the Gray Wolf.</p>
    <p>The evidence is pretty conclusive that the genus <span class="taxon">Canis</span> evolved in North America and then spread to Asia over the Bering land bridge from whence they spread to Europe and Africa. The Gray Wolf likely evolved in Asia and <em>after</em> evolving in Asia, some dispersed back over the Bering land bridge back to North America establishing the Gray Wolf population here.</p>
    <p>A possibility exists that after the ancestor of the Gray Wolf dispersal to Asia from North America, two lineages resulted. One lineage took on the ecological niche currently filled by the Gray Wolf and became the Gray Wolf while the other lineage took on a niche closer to the niche filled by the Coyote in North America. That lineage may have been what was domesticated before <em>possibly</em> going extinct in the wild, leaving us with the domesticated lineage as the only living remnant, similar to how the ancestor of Domestic Cattle is now extinct.</p>
    <p>There is not conclusive evidence that Domestic Dogs are from a different lineage than what became the Gray Wolf but it also has not been ruled out. The difference in natural history of landrace Pariah breeds could just be a side effect of domestication rather than an indication of a distinct lineage from Gray Wolves, but if that scenario is what took place, Domestic Dogs can not be a subspecies of the Gray Wolf.</p>
    <p>If Domestic Dogs are descendant from Gray Wolves, I do have a question. Why do Domestic Dogs have a dew claw while Gray Wolves do not? There are logical possible explanations but it is still an interesting question.</p>
    <p>On the other hand, it is quite possible that Domestic Dogs are in fact descended from Gray Wolves. This does seem to be the more popular hypothesis, if for no other reason than there simply is currently no actual evidence that a now extinct in the wild sister lineage to the Gray Wolf ever existed, there is only conjecture that such a lineage <em>might</em> have existed.</p>
    <p>Are Gray Wolves and Domestic Dogs on diverging evolutionary paths? If the answer is yes, then they are distinct species according to the Evolutionary Species Concept.</p>
    <p>If they are on different evolutionary paths, then we should be able to identify the barriers to gene flow.</p>
    <section id="barrier.genetic" aria-labelledby="barrier.genetic.label">
      <h3 id="barrier.genetic.label">Genetic Barrier</h3>
      <p>There does <strong>not</strong> appear to be a genetic barrier to gene flow. Under captive conditions, Gray Wolves and Domestic Dogs can be induced to hybridize and the resulting pups are generally fertile.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="barrier.geographical" aria-labelledby="barrier.geographical.label">
      <h3 id="barrier.geographical.label">Geographical Barrier</h3>
      <p>It certainly can be said that there is a significant geographical barrier to gene flow between the Australian Dingo and the Gray Wolf, but there is not a geographical barrier between Domestic Dogs in general and the Gray Wolf. Through much of the Gray Wolf range, Domestic Dogs and the Gray Wolf do have contact opportunities that could facilitate gene flow.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="barrier.nathistory" aria-labelledby="barrier.nathistory.label">
      <h3 id="barrier.nathistory.label">Natural History Barrier</h3>
      <p>The Natural History of Gray Wolves and Domestic Dogs is quite different, and this is where I propose there is an actual barrier to gene flow. Gray wolves form family unit packs usually consisting of a single breeding pair and offspring that have no dispersed, sometimes with other lone wolves joining a pack though most members are usually offspring of the breeding pair. As an Apex predator, they tend to hunt ungulates.</p>
      <p>Domestic Dogs are either kept by humans where they rely upon humans for food. In the case of some feral landrace breeds such as the Australian Dingo, they will form packs but while they do sometimes take large prey are much more likely to prey upon smaller animals, similar to the Coyote in natural history.</p>
      <p>Where Gray Wolves do come in contact with Domestic Dogs, the result is almost always aggression that does not end well for the Domestic Dog if there is not a human to intervene. Reproduction between Gray Wolves and Domestic Dogs that is not facilitated by humans is rare.</p>
      <p>Gray Wolves tend to avoid humans while even wild landrace Pariah breeds of Domestic Dogs are much more comfortable around humans.</p>
      <p>In India where there are both the Indian Wolf (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus pallipes</span>) [Sykes, 1831] and the landrace Indian pariah dog, hybrids between them seems to uncommon indicating their natural history is a barrier to gene flow.</p>
      <p>Wild Australian Dingos, on the other hand, freely hybridize with other Domestic Dog breeds given the opportunity. The Australian Dingo (and other wild landrace Pariah breeds) treat even modern Domestic Dog breeds as their own species but Wolves generally do not.</p>
      <p>In Italy where the Italian Wolf has suffered population declines there are wild hybrids between the Italian Wolf and the Domestic Dog. However it is important to note that in Mexico and Arizona where the Mexican Wolf (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus baileyi</span>) is in severe decline, they do hybridize with the Coyote which is indisputably a distinct species from the Gray Wolf.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="barrier.summary" aria-labelledby="barrier.summary.label">
      <h3 id="barrier.summary.label">Summary of Gene Flow Barrier</h3>
      <p>The Gray Wolf and the Domestic Dog are genetically compatible and do not have a geological barrier to gene flow. Their respective natural histories however are quite different and do present a barrier to gene flow.</p>
      <p>Where Gray Wolves and landrace Pariah breeds of Domestic Dog both exist, the lineages remain distinct. Hybridization may happen but either not very often or the offspring rarely pass on their hybrid genetics to another generation.</p>
      <p>Where Gray Wolves and human-owned Domestic Dogs co-exist, Gray Wolves tend to avoid reproduction with them.</p>
      <p>Where landrace Pariah Domestic Dogs and human-owned Domestic Dogs co-exist, reproduction between them is common.</p>
      <p>In Italy where wild hybrids between the Gray Wolf and Domestic Dogs are currently documented, the Gray Wolf population is currently very low, the same conditions under which Gray Wolves and Coyotes hybridize in North America.</p>
      <p>Whether or not Domestic Dogs descended from Gray Wolves or from a now extinct sister lineage to Gray Wolves is not relevant, a barrier to gene flow between Gray Wolves and Domestic Dogs exists. They are on distinct evolutionary paths and therefore in my opinion are in fact distinct species.</p>
      <p><em>Speculatory</em>, but it is quite possible that Gray Wolves and the ancestor of Domestic Dogs diverged as sister lineages <em>before</em> the domestication of dogs, quite possibly with the natural history of the lineage that became Domestic Dogs being similar to the natural history of landrace Pariah Breeds like the Australian Dingo, Indian Pariah Dog, and Basenji. The comfort these landrace Pariah breeds have around humans may in fact predate domestication and have been a trait that led to the eventual domestication.</p>
      <p><em>Radical Speculatory</em>, perhaps if the ancestor of the Domestic Dog is a sister lineage to the Gray Wolf, the wild lineage did not actually go extinct but lives on in some of the landrace Pariah breeds such as the Indian Pariah Dog, with some genetic admixture from later lineages that were domesticated.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>