<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Status of Volume 1 Taxon Nova</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="novah1">
  <h1 id="novah1">Status of Volume 1 Taxon Nova</h1>
  <p class="artauthor">by Michael A. Peters</p>
  <div role="navigation">
    <ol start="0">
      <li><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
      <li><a href="#C_c_missouriensis"><span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#C_t_arequipae"><span class="taxon">Cavia tschudii arequipæ</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#Micraonyx"><span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#M_albicinctus"><span class="taxon">Myotis albicinctus</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#N_a_nigrescens"><span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni nigrescens</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#Osbornictis"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#O_piscivora"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#S_n_avicennia"><span class="taxon">Sciurus niger avicennia</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#Xenogale"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span></a></li>
      <li><a href="#X_microdon"><span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span></a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  
  <section id="abstract" aria-label="abstract">
    <p>Journal of Mammalogy Volume 1 described 4 new genera, 10 new species, and 8 new subspecies.</p>
    <p>During the early part of the twentieth century, the technology to analyze genetics and create a cladogram showing the relationships between organism populations had not yet been developed. New descriptions were generally based upon perceived identifiable diagnostic differences between populations, usually morphological in nature.</p>
    <p>As the science of <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#phylogenetic_systematics" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">phylogenetic systematics</a> (commonly referred to as <em>cladistics</em>) advanced, some diagnostic differences have stood the test of time while others have been shown to be the result of natural selection pressures specific to the population but are not indicative of a distinct evolutionary lineage. In most cases when a described taxon name is invalidated, it is due to a consensus that the name is a <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#junior_synonym" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">junior synonym</a> of a previously described taxon.</p>
    <p>It should be noted that there is no such thing as an &#8220;official&#8221; listing or registry of valid taxon nomenclatures. Some organizations publish lists, but even respected scientists within those organizations usually have some disagreements with the list.</p>
    <p>Personally speaking, when a taxon has an <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#ITIS" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref"><abbr>ITIS</abbr></a> Taxonomical Serial Number (<abbr>TSN</abbr>), I use that system to determine if a taxon nomenclature should be considered valid unless I am aware of compelling research (usually recent) that disagrees with the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> report.</p>
    <p>This listing attempts to identify the general scientific consensus on how the new taxons described in the Journal of Mammalogy Volume 1 have stood the test of time. This listing should not be considered authoritative.</p>
  </section>

  <section id="C_c_missouriensis" aria-labelledby="C_c_missouriensis.label">
    <h2 id="C_c_missouriensis.label"><span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new subspecies of <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span> by Vernon Bailey on page <a href="../1919Nov/nd_beaver.xhtml#missouriensis">32</a>.</p>
    <p>Hall and Kelson (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#hall_kelson-1959" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1959</time></a>) recognized this subspecies, along with 23 others for a total of 24. In his second edition, Hall (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#hall-1981" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1981</a>) also recognized this subspecies and the majority of the defined subspecies.</p>
    <p>As of <time datetime="2020-04-27">April 27, 2020</time>, <abbr>ITIS</abbr> does not recognize any subspecies and lists <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span> [<abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=900118" title="Internet Resource">900118</a>] as a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span>.</p>
    <p>Like the Gray Wolf (<span class="taxon">Canis lupus</span>), the North American Beaver is a classic example of the &#8216;Publish or Perish&#8217; trend that resulted in an overabundance of subspecies descriptions during the first half of the twentieth century. Many subspecies were described, often with only superficial morphological differences justifying the description. Some of the subspecies descriptions may be valid, but the majority of them to me anyway read like they could simply be regional natural selection pressures rather than indicative of distinct lineages within the species.</p>
    <p>To the best of my knowledge, a genetic review of the clades within <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span> has not taken place. If and when that happens, it is possible some of the formerly described subspecies may be revived.</p>
    <p>With no subspecies of <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span> currently recognized, <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span> is a monotypic species. As such, <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis missouriensis</span> is currently viewed as an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Castor canadensis</span> [Kuhl, <time>1820</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180212" title="Internet Resource">180212</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="C_t_arequipae" aria-labelledby="C_t_arequipae.label">
    <h2 id="C_t_arequipae.label"><span class="taxon">Cavia tschudii arequipæ</span></h2>
    <p>Wilfred H. Osgood on <a href="../1919Nov/sa_mammals.xhtml#sa04">page 34</a> assigned a new taxonomic name for this subspecies in order to avoid a naming clash.</p>
    <p>As of <time datetime="2020-04-28">April 28, 2020</time> the name Osgood assigned is still considered valid by the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> although it is now spelled without the &#8216;<span aria-label="A E">ae</span>&#8217; ligature as <span class="taxon">Cavia tschudii arequipae</span> [Osgood, <time>1919</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=825520" title="Internet Resource">825520</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="Micraonyx" aria-labelledby="Micraonyx.label">
    <h2 id="Micraonyx.label"><span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new genus of Viverridae by J. A. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af02">page 24</a>.</p>
    <p>For his type specimen, Allen used <span class="taxon">Lutra leptonyx</span>.</p>
    <p>The species had already been proposed as a type species for the genus <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> but as explained in Allen’s article, the genus name was unavailable, hence why he proposed <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span>.</p>
    <p>I was not able to find any recent literature that accepted this new genus.</p>
    <p>On <time datetime="2020-04-25">April 25, 2020</time> the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> did not have a <abbr>TSN</abbr> for this genus, and the <a href="../apx/glossary.xhtml#IBIS" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref"><abbr>IBIS</abbr></a> <a href="https://mammals.indianbiodiversity.org/mammals/mammalia/carnivora/mustelidae/aonyx">Mammal Database</a> lists both <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span> and <span class="taxon">Leptonyx</span> as junior synonyms as <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span>.</p>
    <p>It appears that the current general consensus of the scientific community is that <span class="taxon">Micraonyx</span> is an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Aonyx</span> [Lesson, <time>1827</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=621802" title="Internet Resource">621802</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="M_albicinctus" aria-labelledby="M_albicinctus.label">
    <h2 id="M_albicinctus.label"><span class="taxon">Myotis albicinctus</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new species of bat by Glover M. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/bats_mount_whitney.xhtml">page 2</a>.</p>
    <p>In his species description, Allen notes that this bat is very similar to <span class="taxon">Myotis lucifugus altipetens</span> and that both <abbr>Dr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Joseph Grinnell were inclined to classify the skins as <span class="taxon"><abbr>M. l.</abbr> altipetens</span>.</p>
    <p>This taxon was recognized by Miller (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#miller-1923" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1923</time> page 68</a>).</p>
    <p>I was not however able to find an academic reference either in the twenty-first century or in the latter half of the twentieth century that accepted <span class="taxon">Myotis albicinctus</span> as valid let alone any that argued for its validity. The <abbr>ITIS</abbr> does not have a <abbr>TSN</abbr> for this nomenclature.</p>
    <p>In Grinnel (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#grinnell-1933" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1933</time> pages 85&#8211;86</a>), both the taxon <span class="taxon"><abbr>M. l.</abbr> altipetens</span> and the taxon <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> albicinctus</span> are identified as junior synonyms of <span class="taxon"><abbr>M. l.</abbr> carissima</span>.</p>    
    <p>It is fairly safe to assume that the overwhelming consensus is that that <span class="taxon">Myotis albicinctus</span> is an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Myotis lucifugus carissima</span> [Thomas, <time>1904</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=948587" title="Internet Resource">948587</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="N_a_nigrescens" aria-labelledby="N_a_nigrescens.label">
    <h2 id="N_a_nigrescens.label"><span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni nigrescens</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new subspecies of <span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span> [True, 1884] by Arthur H. Howell on page 79.</p>
    <p>Rausch (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#rausch-1952" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1952</time></a>) used this as a valid taxon.</p>
    <p>Whitaker and Hamilton (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#whitaker-hamilton-1998" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1998</time></a>) recommend this subspecies be treated as a synonym of <span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span> and do not recognize any subspecies of <span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span>.</p>
    <p>The <abbr>ITIS</abbr> <abbr>TSN</abbr> for <span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni nigrescens</span> is <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=972992" title="Internet Resource">972992</a> and as checked on <time datetime="2020-04-22">April 22, 2020</time> the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> lists this nomenclature as an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Neofiber alleni</span> [True, <time>1884</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180357" title="Internet Resource">180357</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="Osbornictis" aria-labelledby="Osbornictis.label">
    <h2 id="Osbornictis.label"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new genus of Viverridae by J. A. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af03">page 25</a> where he notes it is closely related to <span class="taxon">Genetta</span>.</p>
    <p>The genus was described for the purpose of a new species he was describing, <span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span>.</p>
    <p>The genus remained monotypic containing only that species and very little natural history about the genus could be determined as specimens belonging to that species proved to be very scarce.</p>
    <p>A genetic assessment of the genets (<span class="taxon">Genetta</span>) and their relatives including <span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span> was done by <a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#gaubert_et_al-2004" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">Gaubert <abbr>et. al.</abbr> in 2004</a> which demonstrated that <span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span> is not a distinct lineage from <span class="taxon">Genetta</span> and should thus be considered a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Genetta</span>.</p>
    <p>As of <time datetime="2020-04-25">April 25, 2020</time> the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> also lists <span class="taxon">Osbornictis</span> [<abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=621834" title="Internet Resource">621834</a>] as a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Genetta</span> [Cuvier, <time>1816</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=621833" title="Internet Resource">621833</a>].</p>
  </section>
  <section id="O_piscivora" aria-labelledby="O_piscivora.label">
    <h2 id="O_piscivora.label"><span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new species of Viverridae by J. A. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af04">page 25</a>.</p>
    <p>Not much is known about this species&#8212;currently referred to as &#8216;Aquatic Genet&#8217; as an English common name&#8212;not very many specimens have been collected. The species is still considered valid and is referenced in modern literature.</p>
    <p>The genus is now considered to be a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Genetta</span> making the currently accepted nomenclature <span class="taxon">Genetta piscivora</span>.</p>
    <p>As of <time datetime="2020-04-25">April 25, 2020</time> the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> lists <span class="taxon">Osbornictis piscivora</span> [Allen, <time>1919</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=621998" title="Internet Resource">621998</a>] as invalid, preferring the genus update to the nomenclature as <span class="taxon">Genetta piscivora</span> [Allen, <time>1919</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=726261" title="Internet Resource">726261</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="S_n_avicennia" aria-labelledby="S_n_avicennia.label">
    <h2 id="S_n_avicennia.label"><span class="taxon">Sciurus niger avicennia</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new subspecies of <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span> [Linnæus, 1758] by Arthur H. Howell on
<a href="../1919Nov/fox_squirrels.xhtml#sna">page 37</a>.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately relevant recent academic papers that look at the phylogenetic relationships within <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span> are behind paywalls and are very expensive to access, I was not able to look at them.</p>
    <p>The <abbr>ITIS</abbr> as of <time datetime="2020-03-30">April 30, 2020</time> however does recognize this subspecies as valid with the nomenclature of <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger avicennia</span> [Howell, <time>1919</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=931247" title="Internet Resource">931247</a>].</p>
  </section>

  <section id="Xenogale" aria-labelledby="Xenogale.label">
    <h2 id="Xenogale.label"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new genus of Viverridae by J. A. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af05">page 26</a> where he notes several resemblances to <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>, <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>, and <span class="taxon">Ichneumia</span>.</p>
    <p>The genus was described for the purpose of a new species he was describing, <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span>.</p>
    <p>Haymen (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#sanderson-1940" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">in Sanderson <time>1940</time></a>) very convincingly demonstrated that the type species <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> is synonymous with <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> [de Winton, <time>1901</time>].</p>
    <p>With the rules of taxonomical nomenclature, the type species junior synonomy to a previously described species <strong>must</strong> result in one of two things:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>The genus <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> is invalidated as a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>.</li>
      <li>The species <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> becomes the type for <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> and thus becomes <span class="taxon">Xenogale naso</span>.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Rosevear (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#rosevear-1974" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref">1974, pages 329&#8211;336</a>), Ansell (<time>1978</time> citation needed), and Colyn and Van Rompaey (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#colyn_van_rompaey-1994" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1994</time></a>) chose the latter, keeping <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> as a monotypic genus containing only <span class="taxon">Xenogale naso</span>.</p>
    <p>Most mammalogists however it seems currently choose the former and treat <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> as a junior synonym to <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>. I literally searched online for hours looking for scholarly justification in treating <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> as a junior synonym to <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span>. I found several expressed opinions that keeping <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> as valid would result in <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> being paraphyletic but I did not find even one peer reviewed journal article that backed up that opinion.</p>
    <p>Opinions and peer reviewed science are not the same thing, even when those opinions are from scientists. Honestly I suspect (and note this suspicion is also just an opinion&#8230;) that if <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> had been described before <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> so that it was the senior synonym, the genus <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> would still be considered valid and used by the majority of mammalogists writing papers on the species.</p>
    <p>Patau <abbr>et. al.</abbr> (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#patou_et_al-2009" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>2009</time> figures 1&#8211;2</a>) show that even without <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span>, <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> already has major paraphyletic issues. It is very interesting to me that in their phylogenetic tree, <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> aligns with <span class="taxon">Atilax paludinosus</span> to form a clade. This is interesting to me because Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af05.p1">page 27</a> notes that <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> was mistaken in the field for <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>.</p>
    <p>Parau <abbr>et. al.</abbr> in their discussion (<abbr>l. c.</abbr> page 75) do note that the closest relative to <span class="taxon"><abbr>H.</abbr> naso</span> in their analysis is <span class="taxon"><abbr>A.</abbr> paludinosus</span> but also note that in addition to some morphological differences, there are ecological differences and a very distant most recent common ancestor. They do not recommend placing the two species within the same genus.</p>
    <p>They note that more research is needed, but if a taxonomic revision of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> does result in something similar to their phylogenetic tree shown in figure 2 with <span class="taxon"><abbr>H.</abbr> naso</span> and <span class="taxon"><abbr>A.</abbr> paludinosus</span> forming a clade to the exclusion of other <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> then it seems more likely to me that <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> would be revived as a monotypic genus than for <span class="taxon"><abbr>H.</abbr> naso</span> than to be placed within <span class="taxon">Atilax</span>.</p>
    <section id="Xenogale.summary" aria-labelledby="Xenogale.summaryh3">
      <h3 id="Xenogale.summaryh3"><span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> Summary</h3>
      <p>It is very clear that the genus <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> is in need of taxonomic revision.</p>
      <p>When that revision takes place, it is my <em>suspicion</em> the result will be very similar to Patau <abbr>et. al.</abbr> figure 2, with <span class="taxon"><abbr>H.</abbr> naso</span> and <span class="taxon"><abbr>A.</abbr> paludinosus</span> forming a monophyletic clade within the Herpestidae. It is further my <em>suspicion</em> that <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> will then be revived according to the rules of taxonomic nomenclature as a monotypic genus containing the species <span class="taxon">Xenogale naso</span>, vindicating Allen and the minority of authors who continued to treat <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> as a valid genus even after <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> was shown to be synonymous with <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span>.</p>
      <p>However, until that revision has been done and passed academic review, <span class="taxon">Xenogale</span> should probably be treated as an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Herpestes</span> [Illiger, <time>1811</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180612" title="Internet Resource">180612</a>] simply because that is the current consensus even if possibly a misguided consensus.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <!-- 1977 ref See Coetzee in Meester and Setzer (eds.), The mammals of Africa: an identification manual -->
  <!-- Pt. 8: 26, August 22, 1977. -->
  <section id="X_microdon" aria-labelledby="X_microdon.label">
    <h2 id="X_microdon.label"><span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span></h2>
    <p>Described as a new species of Viverridae by J. A. Allen on <a href="../1919Nov/af_carnivora.xhtml#af06">page 27</a>.</p>
    <p>As mentioned in the discussion for the genus, this taxon is now considered to be a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span>.</p>
    <p>This does <em>not</em> however mean the description is invalid.</p>
    <p>If it can be shown that the type specimen for <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> differs enough from the type specimen for <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> to warrant subspecies differentiaton, then the description for <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> would survive but as <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso microdon</span>.</p>
    <p>I was able to locate two authors who held this view.</p>
    <p>Coetzee (in Meester and Setzer <time>1977</time> page ???) and Kingdon (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#kingdon-1988" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1988</time> page 183</a>) both recognized the trinomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso microdon</span>. Their support appears to be a minority view.</p>

    <p>On the other hand, Colyn and Van Rompaey (<a href="../apx/bibliography.xhtml#colyn_van_rompaey-1994" epub:type="biblioref" role="doc-biblioref"><time>1994</time></a>) make a very good argument for treating it as a monotypic species with very compelling evidence that the three defined subspecies <span class="taxon">Xenogale [= Herpestes] naso naso</span>, <span class="taxon"><abbr>X. n.</abbr> almodovari</span>, and <span class="taxon"><abbr>X. n.</abbr> microdon</span> can not be distinguished cranially. As a monotypic species, the description by J. A. Allen would be invalidated as a junior synonym.</p>
    <p>The vast majority of authors seem to be in agreement with Colyn and Van Rompaey.</p>
    <p>The overwhelming current consensus is that subspecies are not justified and that <span class="taxon">Xenogale microdon</span> is an invalid junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Herpestes naso</span> [de Winton, <time>1901</time> <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=621894" title="Internet Resource">621894</a>].</p>
  </section>

</section>
</body>
</html>